Title: Ballistic atomic transport in narrow carbon nanotubes

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.06490v1

Published Time: Thu, 09 Apr 2026 00:15:46 GMT

Number of Pages: 9

Markdown Content:
# Ballistic atomic transport in narrow carbon nanotubes 

Alberto Ambrosetti 1∗, Pier Luigi Silvestrelli 1, John F. Dobson 2, Luca Salasnich 1,3,4

> 1

Dipartimento di Fisica e Astronomia, Universit` a degli Studi di Padova, via Marzolo 8, 35131 , Padova, Italy 

> 2

School of Environment and Science, Griffith University , 4111 Nathan Queensland, Australia 

> 3

Istituto Nazionale di Ottica del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Unit` a di Sesto Fiorentino, via Carrara 1, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino (Firenze), Italy 

> 4

Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Sezione di Padova, via Marzolo 8, 35131 , Padova, Italy 

Friction forces are conventionally modeled via semi-classical theories, that associate energy dis-sipation with newtonian motion on corrugated interface potentials. This consolidated approach is challenged at the nanoscale by observation of nearly-unimpeded water flow in narrow carbon nan-otubes (CNTs), in spite of non-vanishing energy corrugations. Here we go beyond the standard newtonian perspective, adopting a quantum mechanical description of 4He flow through narrow CNTs. Building upon our Bloch-wave dynamics [PRL 131 , 206301 (2023)] we explore realistic flow conditions, including non-negligible interface interactions, finite temperatures, and imperfect CNTs. At T =0 K we found that 4He waves can propagate through ideally periodic, corrugated interface potentials with no friction: below a critical velocity regulated by interface corrugations, energy loss by emission of plasmon and phonon quanta is forbidden. Introducing realistic impurities/defects one still finds very large mean free paths that can exceed the μm scale, while thermal phonons and plasmons yield even lower scattering rates. This establishes the unexpected emergence of ballis-tic wave-like transport in narrow CNTs within realistic nanoscale devices, and demonstrates the intrinsic quantumness of nanoscale interfaces. 

The concept of ballistic transport (BT) is conven-tionally associated with the near-unimpeded flow of charge carriers 1 through quasi one-dimensional (1D) crystalline systems, such as carbon nanotubes 2,3 (CNT) or nanowires 4,5 . In normal conductors, the collision of charge carriers on impurities/defects or thermal ionic dis-placements implies finite resistivity, and prevents unim-peded flow. However, when the mean free path (i.e. the average length a particle travels between subsequent collisions) largely exceeds the longest dimension of the medium, BT becomes possible and the measured resis-tivity can closely approach zero. Two main consequences emerge: i) the rise of virtually non-dissipative electric currents, and ii) the appearance of coherence phenom-ena 6,7 related to the non-local quantum nature of the nearly-unperturbed flowing particles. As recently demonstrated by unimpeded phonon dy-namics 8,9 , BT mechanisms are not necessarily restricted to charge carriers. In principle, generalization of BT to alternative quasi-particles under suitable conditions could be equally viable – although such phenomena re-main so far largely unexplored. From the experimental side, nanofluidics measure-ments conducted at room temperature have recently re-ported exceptionally-high water flow rates 10–13 through narrow carbon nanotubes. Measured permeabilities ex-ceed classical fluid-mechanics/molecular dynamics pre-dictions 14 by up to 4 orders of magnitude, implying a dramatic reduction of friction forces. Very steep perme-ability growth 13,15 is also observed when the CNT ra-dius is reduced towards the nm scale, in spite of the 

> ∗Corresponding author. Email:alberto.ambrosetti@unipd.it

higher surface-to-volume ratio. The failure of (semi-)classical approaches suggests 16–20 deep quantum me-chanical transport. For instance, momentum-flow tun-nelling 21 and quantum fluid friction 16 , were recently pro-posed in analogy to electronic tunnelling, and to elec-tronic friction. On the other hand, the 1D character of the effect also introduces a clear parallelism with elec-tronic BT. The question, then, is whether BT can actu-ally extend to atomic/molecular flow or not. Starting from a quantum description of confined atomic flow built upon our Bloch-wave dynamics model -a model which we recently exploited 22 to describe He flow at T =0 K in ideally periodic CNT’s- we will cap-ture realistic effects such as corrugated interface poten-tials, impurities and thermal excitations. As a main result, we will confirm the viability of ballistic atomic transport (denoted hereafter as BAT). So far, unimpeded mass flow was essentially associated with superfluidity and limited to ultra-low temperatures. BAT could ex-tend near-frictionless flow to room conditions, opening the way to innovative nanofluidics technologies such as ultra-efficient gas filtration, self-sustained water purifi-cation 23 and non-destructive injection in cellular mem-branes. 

I. QUANTUM BLOCH-WAVE MODEL FOR CONFINED FLOW 

To explore the viability of BAT and to unambiguously identify the relevant physical ingredients, we will treat a simplified problem, considering the flow of individual, weakly interacting 4He atoms through a narrow and ide-ally periodic (5,5) CNT (with diameter d = 6 .82 ˚ A). Our model will be valid in the limit of low 4He density 

> arXiv:2604.06490v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall] 7 Apr 2026

2and will be eventually transferable to alternative chemi-cal moieties. 4He is considered here in place of water due to its isotropic character, that avoids permanent dipole moments. 4He also has a very small size, and it inter-acts weakly both with CNT and with other 4He atoms, justifying the adoption of a single-atom approach in the low density limit. Considering that the 4He-4He inter-action energy amounts 24 to ∼1 meV at a separation of 

∼3 ˚ A, non-linear effects due to multiple flowing atoms can be neglected when the 4He-4He distance exceeds ∼6˚A. The key ingredients for the onset of BAT are all re-tained by our model. Laterally confined 4He performs an effective 1D motion 22,25 along the CNT axis ˆ x. Due to the interaction with the CNT walls 4He is subject to an effective interface potential Veff (x), periodically repeated along x. The CNT unit cell has length L =2.46 ˚ A and 

mHe indicates the 4He mass. Tribology problems are conventionally addressed in lit-erature 26–32 from a semi-classical Newtonian perspective, associating friction forces with the existence of corru-gated interface potentials that must be overcome upon relative motion. However, even when moving at a very fast speed of ∼200 m/s, a 4He atom is already associated to a De Broglie wavelength that exceeds the CNT unit cell size. Hence, 4He cannot perceive Veff (x) in a classical Newtonian sense. To account for the wave-like nature of the flowing 4He, we exploit an effective quantum Hamiltonian 22 (atomic units will be exploited hereafter): 

Heff = − 1

2mHe 

d2

dx 2 + Veff (x, R) . (1) Here Veff depends on the 4He coordinate x and carries ad-ditional dependence on the coordinates R relative to the CNT C atoms. A direct estimate of Veff for the ideally periodic CNT is obtained by first-principle density func-tional theory (DFT – see details below). All C atoms were held in their equilibrium configuration ( Req ). In general, one has Veff (x, Req ) = ∑∞ 

> J=1

AJ cos ( KJ x) + 

BJ sin ( KJ x) where KJ = 2 Jπ/L (phonons were later introduced perturbatively to capture CNT atomic mo-tions). Laterally, the 4He atom is tightly confined within the CNT. Hence, transversal motion is effectively factor-ized in the wavefunction (more details will be provided below). The summation in Veff is dominated 25,33 by the cosinusoidal term J = 2. In fact Veff is nearly cosinu-soidal, with A2 ∼ 0.03 meV. Even smaller corrugation amplitude ( A2 . 0.01 meV) is found in the slightly larger (7,7) CNT (both armchair CNTs have metallic nature), whereas larger corrugation ( A =0.76 meV) is associated with the finite-gap (8,0) CNT, in spite of the slightly larger diameter ( d=0.76 ˚ A). Diagonalization of Heff yields a set of single-particle Bloch wavefunctions ψq,n (x) with corresponding energy levels Eq,n (having band index n and wave vector q within the first Brillouin Zone –1BZ–, i.e. −π/L < q < π/L ). These build up the band structure of flowing 4He (see Fig. 1). If Veff only contains the term A2 cos ( K2x), the periodicity of the system becomes compatible with L/ 2. This formally enlarges the BZ to twice the standard CNT 1BZ size. After folding 4He bands into the standard 1BZ, band gaps appear at q = 0 (see Fig. 1). When additional terms are introduced in Veff , small gaps emerge also at the 1BZ edges. Transversal motion is initially neglected, being associated with larger energy scales with respect to low-lying bands (see below). To describe friction one must now explicitly account for the quantum mechanical excitations in the CNT. In fact, 4He could perform quantum mechanical scatter-ing, and transfer part of its energy 22,25 to the low-lying CNT quasi-particle modes, undergoing effective dissipa-tion. The relevant low-lying quantum modes here are the acoustic CNT phonons (quantum vibrations of the atomic lattice), and plasmons (collective electron excita-tions). At low momenta p, these modes exhibit quasi-linear energy dispersion. For instance, the softest trans-verse acoustic (TA) CNT phonon has 34,35 a dispersion relation ωTA (p) ∼ vTA |p| (with vTA ∼ 4.5 × 10 −3a.u. in the (5,5) CNT). Other phonon modes and plasmons 25,36 

are associated with higher velocities.    

> II. ROLE OF PERIODIC INTERFACE POTENTIALS AT T=0 K

We begin considering an ideally periodic CNT at T =0 K (our Bloch-wave model 22 , will be improved includ-ing non-negligible Veff ). Under these conditions, a 4He atom with initial momentum q and energy Eq,n could only scatter against the CNT exciting phonons or plas-mons from the vacuum (both modes will have momentum 

p). After scattering, 4He acquires momentum q′ and en-ergy Eq′ ,n ′ . The energy change in the presence of CNT atomic displacements δR i,l c (i indicates an atomic Carte-sian coordinate within the unit cell, while lc labels the unit cell replica) when 4He occupies the coordinate x is ∆U = − ∑

> i

∑Nlc=1 Fi,l c (x)δR i,l c . We will let N finally tend to infinity. Here Fi,l c is the force acting on C atoms due to the presence of 4He, and it is obtained from the interface potential as Fi,l c = −∂Ri,lc Veff . This expansion introduces a perturbative quantum mechanical treatment of the nuclear motion. The scattering rate for the lead-ing one-phonon (of type j) process is described by Fermi’s golden rule: Γideal = 2 π|〈 1jp|〈 ψq′ ,n ′ |∆U |ψq,n 〉| 0〉| 2

×δ(Eq,n − Eq′ ,n ′ − ωj (p)) = = 2 π| ∑

> i,l c

〈ψq′ ,n ′ | − Fi,l c (x)|ψq,n 〉〈 1jp|δR i,l c |0〉| 2

×δ(Eq,n − Eq′ ,n ′ − ωj (p)) . (2) Calculations are reported in full detail in the Supple-mental Material 37 . After suitable rotation to collective vibrational coordinates, δR i,l c can be recast as a linear combination of phonon creation/annihilation operators, and thus accounts for single phonon absorption/emission. 3As previously noted, at T =0 K the phonon modes are in their ground state, so absorption of a phonon quantum is impossible: only phonon emission (i.e. excitation of a vibrational quantum from the vacuum) can occur, and we will now show that this process also has limitations. Considering for instance the excitation of TA phonons (extension to other phonons or plasmons is straightfor-ward), integration of Eq. (2) implies the following two-fold conservation laws: 

{ Eq,n = Eq′ ,n ′ + ωTA (p) ,q = q′ + p + lK 1 , (3) The conservation of crystal momentum (i.e. momen-tum conservation up to integers multiples l of K1) is a consequence of the discrete translational invariance of the CNT. Considering the near-linear dispersion of TA phonons, Eq. (3) can be satisfied only if there exists a unique phonon dispersion line that intersects 4He bands at ( q, E q,n ) and ( q′, E q′ ,n ′ ) at the same time (see Fig. 1). The double intersection automatically ensures conserva-tion of energy and crystal momentum. Observing the band structure, it is obvious that the high slope of the phonon dispersion (determined by vTA ) is incompatible with a double intersection within the ground-state band (n = 0). As a consequence, at T =0 K scattering is pos-sible only when 4He initially occupies an upper band (n > 0) and decays onto a lower band. However, no scattering can occur if 4He initially occupies the ground-state band ( n = 0): in this case no phonon can be excited conserving energy and crystal momentum. This kinematic constraint, – formally analogous to Landau’s superfluidity 22,38,39 criterion – quantum-mechanically protects the particle from scattering. Vir-tually frictionless particle flow is thus possible at T =0 K in perfect CNTs, as long as the particle sits in the ground state band. We now explicitly consider the role of non-vanishing energy corrugations. Since the flowing particle has wave-like character, its speed can be identified with the group velocity vn(q) = ∂E q,n /∂q . The restriction to the ground state band can thus be reformulated in terms of a velocity constraint. In fact, as long as the particle speed v does not exceed a critical velocity vc such that 

vc = Max {q∈BZ }

( ∂E q, 0

∂q 

)

, (4) unimpeded flow is possible. In the limit of vanishing Veff , 4He bands become parabolic, and vc = K1/2mHe . Instead, when the inter-face potential has non-negligible corrugation, 4He bands tend to flatten, opening larger gaps. The consequence is a reduction of the critical velocity vc, which limits the velocity range of the unimpeded flow. In the limit of very large corrugation vc finally tends to zero, due to 

> 4

He confinement. This provides a clear connection be-tween quantum mechanics and semi-classical tribology approaches, where higher interface energy corrugations are associated with larger friction forces.                           

> FIG. 1: a) Band structure (longitudinal, i.e. related to mo-tion along x) for a single 4He atom in periodic potentials due to the interaction with CNT walls. At A2= 0 4He be-haves as a free particle, with parabolic bands. Extremely small energy gaps emerge at A2= 0 .03 meV, and the devi-ation from parabolic bands is hardly detectable. When A2
> becomes larger, gaps become more visible and bands gradu-ally tend to flatten. The unit cell length is fixed to L= 2 .46 ˚ A, compatibly with the (5,5) CNTs. b) Critical velocity vc–i.e. maximum slope of the ground state band–for 4He immersed in Veff with variable amplitude A2.Two different periodici-ties L(compatible with zigzag and armchair CNTs) are taken into consideration.

Large vc (exceeding 10 m/s) can persist when the po-tential corrugation reaches a few meV. Frictionless par-ticle flow at T =0 K is thus expected to be possible also on alternative weakly-coupled interfaces. However, when 

v > v c occupation of higher-energy bands becomes un-avoidable and scattering is permitted. Finite friction forces can potentially arise. In spite of the evident analogy with Landau’s superflu-idity criterion and the rise of frictionless flow, no super-fluidity is present here. In fact, superfluidity emerges as a many-body effect, while only a single He atom is consid-ered here. In a conventional superfluid flowing particles 4and collective quasi-particle modes are both part of the superfluid itself. Instead, here one has a net distinction between the flowing particle (He), and the collective ex-citations (living in the CNT). We observe for completeness that even larger velocities (reaching 82 m/s) were found 40 for Co diffusion on the external surface of CNTs.  

> III. SCATTERING BY IMPURITIES

A key assumption introduced so far was the ideal pe-riodicity of the CNT lattice, which ensures conservation of crystal momentum. However, a few impurities may be present in CNTs, and could in principle introduce finite friction forces. Among these, the most frequent are Stone-Wales 41 lattice defects - which still exhibit ex-tremely low concentrations, i.e. up to 10 −15 in chemical vapor deposition (CVD)-grown CNTs. The attractive vdW energy of 4He at closest approach on Stone-Wales defects is of the order 41–43 of ∼ 10 −2 eV. Much more abundant disturbances can be determined by absorbates on the outer CNT wall. Weak physical absorption of en-vironmental gaseous moieties commonly takes place on CNTs, governed by weak non-covalent interactions. The effect of outer absorbates on the inner 4He is due to weak vdW interactions, further screened by the CNT walls. Even neglecting screening, the binding energy of 4He due to an outer NH 3 molecule (one of the most stable 44 ph-ysisorbate moieties) amounts to only ∼ 0.05 meV, as es-timated through the Tkatchenko-Scheffler 45 approach. We will determine hereafter the scattering rate for a 

> 4

He atom flowing through a (5,5) CNT on the aforemen-tioned impurities. Given the very small Veff corrugation we approximate longitudinal 4He wavefunctions as single plane waves associated with parabolic energy bands (the corresponding band index n could thus be dropped by letting momentum exceed the BZ). As previously men-tioned, the lateral 4He confinement in a (5,5) CNT within the relevant energy scales is well approximated by a har-monic potential, with frequency ωc ∼ 23 meV. Hence, one can describe the single unperturbed 4He through the following states: 

ψq,n y ,n z (x, y, z ) = eiqx 

√L∞

φny (y)φnz (z) , (5) where φn is the n-th 1D oscillator eigenstate relative to frequency ωc. The normalization of the longitudi-nal plane wave is imposed over a large simulation box of length L∞ = N L (where presence of a single impurity is assumed). We note that the finite lateral extension of the He wavefunction implies that the interface potential should be averaged out along the transversal directions. However, given the small width of the oscillator ground state, modest renormalization (of the order of 0.5 meV) is expected. Supposing 4He initially occupies the state ( q,ny ,nz ), the scattering rate to a final state ( q′,n′ 

> y

,n′ 

> z

), by an im-purity potential Vimp is: Γimp = 2 π|〈 ψq′ ,n ′  

> y,n ′
> z

|Vimp |ψq,n y ,n z 〉| 2

×δ(E(q,n y ,n z ) − E(q,n ′  

> y,n ′
> z)

) . (6) We suppose the 4He atom initially sits in the lowest longi-tudinal band (i.e. q ∈ 1BZ) and in the oscillator ground-state (at T =0 K). Since the periodic interface potential is neglected (extension of the model is straightforward), the initial state will be labeled by ( q,nx=0, ny=0). Due to energy conservation, 4He can only backscatter, inverting its momentum from q to q′ = −q and remaining in ( nx=0, ny=0). By definition, impurities are not peri-odic. Hence, quasi-momentum is not conserved in the scattering. Both SW impurities and adsorbates are modeled here through an effective 1D vdW potential (see Supplemental Material 37 ): 

Vimp ,1D (x) = −C6,eff 

(x2 + d2)−3 . (7) The parameter V0 = −C6,eff d−6 is identified with the potential depth, while d provides the effective radial dis-tance of the source of the vdW potential. The matrix element depends on the Fourier transform of Vimp , which exhibits exponential decay with respect to |q|, and im-plies suppression of Γ imp at large momentum. For nearly free particles, the mean free path can be finally estimated as 

λimp = (Γ imp )−1|q|/m He , (8) where q is the initial momentum of the particle. As shown in Fig. 2, λimp becomes very large at high momentum (close to BZ edges), exceeding the μm scale, and implying deep ballistic motion. In estimating the im-pact of SW defects we took an average separation ∆ ∼ 2

μm. This sets a lower bound to the mean free path at 

∼2 μm. However, the extremely low defect concentra-tions that can be realized at the experimental level can significantly increase this length scale. Concerning ab-sorbates, we note that complete physisorption with a pe-riodic pattern compatible with the CNT lattice would simply renormalize Veff , without causing scattering. Excitation of transversal oscillator modes could open additional scattering channels. However, these channels are associated with large momentum variation, which im-plies strong suppression. The situation is expected to change in CNTs with large diameter, where transversal oscillator modes are associated with lower energy scales and parabolic bands are replicated at small energy inter-vals. In fact, the transversal component of the He wave-function can become ring-shaped in large CNTs, due to absorption on internal walls. The weaker lateral con-finement is then expected to reduce the corresponding excitation energy scale. In that case, impurity scatter-ing can become relevant due to low momentum trans-fer between neighboring band replicas. The exponen-tial dependence of the Fourier-transformed interaction 5

FIG. 2: He scattering on CNT impurity. a) Geometry of a Stone-Wales defect in the (5,5) CNT, as modeled in this work. The flowing He atom is depicted in red. Cartesian axes are reported for reference. The defect is located on the CNT wall at ( x = 0 , y = R, z = 0). b) Mean free path for impurity scattering, as a function of the initial momentum q.Initial oscillator states are set to the ground state for reference (ny = nz = 0), and summation over possible final states is performed. Different potential depths ( V0=10 meV and 0.05 meV) and average distances between impurities (∆=2 μmand 5 ˚ A) are considered, depending on the defect type (SW or adsorbate, respectively). The present choices for ∆ are conservative and can be significantly increased for both SW defects and adsorbates, with adequate fabrication techniques, controlling environmental properties or adopting concentrical CNTs with reduced spacing. Larger ∆ values imply larger mean free paths. The dashed red line indicates the lower bound for λimp relative to SW defects. This corresponds to the average distance between defects adopted here (the value is prudential and can be significantly enhanced). 

on momentum transfer suggests fast variation of scat-tering rates with respect to the CNT diameter. This implies a strong connection between BAT and near 1D confinement, in analogy with electronic BT. We note in passing that water-flow experiments actually reveal ex-tremely rapid permeability increase 16 when CNT diame-ters are decreased below the ∼ 10 nm scale. 

IV. SCATTERING BY THERMAL PHONONS 

So far, calculations were performed at zero temper-ature. However, thermal contributions could also po-

-0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 

qL/2 π

10 1

10 2

10 3

10 4

> λtherm  (μm)

T=300 K 

T=200 K 

T=100 K     

> -0.4 -0.2 00.2 0.4 10 2
> 10 3
> 10 4

FIG. 3: Mean free path for thermal scattering λtherm , in-volving single-phonon absorption as a function of the initial momentum q, at different temperatures T . Summation over available final states is performed. A very small band gap of 0.001 meV is assumed at BZ edges, compatibly with the CNT periodicity. Results show minor dependence on this band gap: the green line shows data for T =100 K, with a larger band gap of 0.1 meV (larger band gaps would further increase the mean free path). Inset: scattering rates relative to the transi-tion between first-excited longitudinal band and ground state band, via phonon emission. 

tentially interfere with the particle flow introducing ef-fective dissipation. In fact, the absorption of thermally excited phonons/plasmons could lead to inter-band tran-sitions that can alter (or even invert) the velocity of the flowing particle. Again, we will initially consider only phononic degrees of freedom, given the formal 25 anal-ogy with plasmons (plasmons will be discussed later). At finite temperature, the average number of excita-tions associated with the phononic frequency ωjp will be 

njp(T ) = 1   

> eωj(p)/K B T−1

where KB is Boltzmann’s con-stant. Extending Eq. (2), we will enable a 4He atom (with initial and final momenta q and q′) to absorb energy from the CNT annihilating a thermally excited phonon with momentum p. The corresponding matrix element, accounting for a change in the population of the j-th phonon from njp to njp − 1 is: 

− ∑

> i,l c

〈q′|Fi,l c |q〉〈 njp − 1|δR i,l c |njp〉 . (9) Defining the Fourier transform ˜fa(p) =

∫ L∞/2 

> −L∞/2

Fa, 0(x)e−ipx dx , the transition rate Γtherm 

can be computed from the above matrix elements in analogy with Eq. (2). Conservation laws analogous to Eq. (3) are enforced here, with the phonon being absorbed rather than emitted. To numerically estimate Γ therm for the case of He in a (5,5) CNT we observe that particle-CNT forces are dominated by non-covalent vdW interactions. This is 6clearly confirmed by first-principle calculations: long-range vdW corrections 47 enhance He-(5,5)CNT interface corrugations by a factor of ∼ 3 with respect to pure PBE (which only accounts for the shorter-range component of vdW forces). A standard pairwise vdW estimate based on the TS 45 procedure is adopted here (see Supplemen-tal Material 37 ). We also note that the presence of band gaps induced by the corrugated potential avoids diver-gence at the BZ edges ( ωj (p) will not vanish there). As from Fig. 3 the mean free paths (estimated in analogy with λimp ) can exceed the μm scale even at T =300 K, when q is sufficiently large. As a consequence, BAT re-mains viable even at room temperature. In addition, even the occurrence of rare one-phonon scattering events does not necessarily imply major flow reduction. In fact, phonon absorption can both decrease and increase the particle speed. Such process could sub-stantially mitigate the net flow reduction. The flowing 4He atom is not treated here as a ther-mal particle. In fact, we assumed its initial speed can be adequately controlled, and 4He can be easily cooled down before injection. Considering the extremely large mean free paths, thermalization by contact with the CNT during the flow can be excluded. In the absence of cool-ing, fractional occupation of excited modes could enable scattering by inter-band transition and phonon emission. However, after decay to the ground state band, 4He will remain there, preserving BAT on long time-scales. Rates of transition between the first excited and the ground state longitudinal band by phonon emission are also easily computed changing initial and final states in Eq. (2). Such process describes the scattering of 4He when its speed exceeds vc. As from Fig. 3 (inset), mean free paths remain very large even in the supercritical regime, suggesting moderate increase of friction forces with respect to the initial velocity. A slightly more complex description is required for 

> 4

He-plasmon 55–57 scattering (details are reported in the Supplemental Material 37 ). Due to the absence of permanent multipoles in 4He, single-plasmon emis-sion/absorption is not permitted, and scattering pro-cesses involve plasmon pairs and second-order perturba-tive contributions. At finite T this potentially implies possible intraband transitions even below vc. In prac-tice, the mean free paths associated with such (leading) process largely exceed those from phonon scattering, and can be neglected (see Supplemental Material 37 ). We finally observe that under 1D confinement the at-tractive potentials generated by impurities are associated to bound states. In principle, unbound 4He could de-cay onto a bound state by phonon emission. Explicit calculations (see Supplemental Material 37 ) show that at sufficiently high speed even this type of decay becomes extremely rare, due to the tendency of the system to con-serve linear momentum.  

> V. DISCUSSION

In the limit of T =0 K and ideal CNT lattice, individual 

> 4

He atoms can virtually flow through the CNT without friction, at variance with semi-classical models. A quan-tum mechanical kinematic constraint, formally analogous to Landau’s superfluidity 38 criterion protects 4He from scattering as long as a critical velocity vc is not exceeded. Similar constraints also apply to neutron scattering ex-periments 48 , and their well-established experimental ob-servation confirms the robustness of the mechanism. Ide-ally periodic CNT-4He interface interactions do not nec-essarily introduce finite friction forces: they rather cause renormalization of the critical velocity vc, which tends to decrease at large corrugations. The obvious consequence is a change of paradigm in tribology, where semi-classical newtonian models need to be replaced by quantum ap-proaches. Within the CNT, 4He does not overcome po-tential barriers in the classical Newtonian sense: due to its wave-like character it undergoes effective diffraction by the periodic interface potential. Scattering from impurities is commonly associated with finite friction forces even at T =0 K. However, in realistic (5,5)CNTs the 4He-impurity interactions are associated with mean free paths that exceed the μmscale. Additionally, impurity contributions can be ex-perimentally suppressed by CVD growth and clean envi-ronments, becoming essentially negligible. On the other hand, impurity scattering rates are expected to rapidly increase when the CNT diameter gets larger, so that near-1D confinement turns out to be a key factor in bal-listic transport. In the same breath, thermally excited phonons/plasmons could potentially introduce additional scattering channels at T > 0 K. Surprisingly, these contri-butions have even smaller impact due to weak coupling, especially close to 1BZ edges. Overall, ballistic transport remains possible even under realistic conditions. CNT translations are also implicit in our model, and can oc-cur as a consequence of He scattering against the inter-face potential or defects/impurities due to conservation of the total momentum (see also Supplemental Material, Ref. 37 ). In its present form, our model is not meant to describe many-body effects or complex internal degrees of free-dom, that are expected to be relevant in near-1D water flow. The limit of individual 4He atoms considered in this work experimentally corresponds to a viable low-density regime. When 4He at low density is pumped through a CNT by a minimal pressure gradient, weak 4He-4He vdW interactions are expected to enable large inter-atomic separations and minimization of non-additive many-body effects. We finally note that while the model Eq. (1) was meant to describe 4He flow through (5,5) CNTs, the equations derived in this work are easily extendable to different flowing atoms/molecules and to alternative nanotubes. The generality of Eqs. (3) further suggests possible ap-plicability of our mechanism even beyond 1D. Relations 7with superlubricity phenomena in 2D nanomaterials also deserve accurate investigation.  

> VI. CONCLUSIONS

We found that ballistic transport –a quantum phe-nomenon conventionally associated with unimpeded elec-tron transport in near-1D systems– is extendable to atomic 4He flow through narrow CNTs. This result changes the general perspective on ballistic phenomena, and could help interpret the giant permeability enhance-ments observed when water flows through CNTs ap-proaching nm-scale diameters. The key prerequisites for ballistic atomic flow are weak 4He-CNT interactions, near-1D confinement (or small CNT diameter), and low concentration of lattice defects in the CNT - a condition which is easily achieved at the experimental level. We also note that ballistic atomic/molecular transport ex-tends near-unimpeded mass flow - a phenomenon that was only associated with superfluidity and ultra-cold temperatures - to new regimes, characterized by much higher temperatures (300 K), and velocities (up to ∼

200 m/s). Ballistic atomic transport can thus profoundly transform nanofluidics and green technologies, providing unparalleled energy-efficiency in fluid transport and fil-tration. Moreover, the deep quantum nature of flowing 

> 4

He opens the way to novel interference phenomena and quantum coherence, in parallel with ballistic electrons.  

> VII. METHODS

DFT provides quantum mechanical account for the electronic structure of the whole system. The semi-local Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof 50 (PBE) functional is adopted to account for electronic exchange and correlation terms, in combination with Grimme’s 47 D2 van der Waals 51–53 

(vdW) corrections. The Quantum Espresso 54 suite was exploited for all DFT calculations, introducing a peri-odic description of the system based on super-cells and ultrasoft pseudopotentials. Electronic wavefunctions are expanded on plane-waves, with an energy cutoff which was fixed to 35 Ry. Simulation super-cells contain 8 lon-gitudinal replicas of the unit cell for armchair nanotubes, and 4 replicas for the larger zigzag nanotubes, while a lat-eral vacuum space of 15 ˚ A separates the periodic repli-cas, orthogonally to the NT axis. Details on analytical calculations are reported in the supplementary material.  

> VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

A.A., L.S. and P.L.S. are grateful to Prof. Francesco Ancilotto for fruitful discussion. A.A. has partly been funded by the European Union - Next-Generation EU (Project CN00000041, CUP B93D21010860004) Mis-sion 4, Component 2, Investment 1.4 - PNRR - Na-tional Center for Gene Therapy and Drugs based on RNA Technology.- CN3 - Spoke 7 (Biocompting) CUP C93C22002780006, and by University of Padova, PARD grant ”Quasi-frictionless water superflow in narrow car-bon nanotubes: unraveling the true quantum mechani-cal mechanism”. P.L.S. and L.S. are partially supported by the European Quantum Flagship Project ”PASQuanS 2”, by the European Union-NextGenerationEU within the National Center for HPC, Big Data and Quantum Computing (Project No. CN00000013, CN1 Spoke 10: “Quantum Computing”). L.S. is also supported by the BIRD Project ”Ultracold atoms in curved geometries” of the University of Padova, and by “Iniziativa Specifica Quantum” of INFN. L.S. also thanks the Italian Ministry of University and Research for the PRIN grant ”Quan-tum Atomic Mixtures: Droplets, Topological Structures, and Vortices”. A.A. and L.S. acknowledge the Italian Ministry of University and Research for the grant ”Di-partimenti di Eccellenza - Frontiere Quantistiche”.                                                        

> 1C.T. White, T.N. Todorov, Carbon nanotubes as long bal-listic conductors. Nature 393 , 240 (1998)
> 2T. Ando, H. Matsumura, T. Nakanishi, Theory of ballis-tic transport in carbon nanotubes. Phys. B: Phys. Cond. Matt. 323 , 44-50 (2002)
> 3P. Poncharal, C. Berger, Y. Yi, Z.L. Wang, W.A. de Heer, Room Temperature Ballistic Conduction in Carbon Nan-otubes. J. Phys. Chem. B 106 , 12104-12118 (2002)
> 4K.S. Chan, J.H. Wei, Quantum ballistic transport in nanowire junctions. Phys. Rev. B 75 , 125310 (2007).
> 5Z. Koeik, M.R. Sakr, Electron thermal conductance in a ballistic nanowire in the presence of Rashba interaction and an in-plane magnetic field Phys. E: Low Dim. Syst. Nanostr. 74 , 527-530 (2015).
> 6J. Kong, et al., Quantum Interference and Ballistic Trans-mission in Nanotube Electron Waveguides. Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 , 106801 (2001).
> 7N. Bohm, P.K., Schelling, Analysis of ballistic transport and resonance in the α-Fermi-Pasta-Ulam-Tsingou model. Phys. Rev. E 106 , 024212 (2022).
> 8J. Maire, R., Anufriev, M., Nomura, Ballistic thermal transport in silicon nanowires. Sci. Rep. 7, 41794 (2017).
> 9R. Anufriev, S., Gluchko, S., Volz, M., Nomura, Prob-ing ballistic thermal conduction in segmented silicon nanowires. Nanoscale 11 , 13407-13414 (2019).
> 10 M. Majumder, N. Chopra, R. Andrews, B.J. Hinds, Nanoscale hydrodynamics: enhanced flow in carbon nan-otubes. Nature 438 , 44-44 (2005).
> 11 J.K. Holt, H.G. Park, Y. Wang, M. Stadermann, A.B. Artyukhin, C.P. Grigoroupoulos, et al. , Fast mass trans-port through sub-2-nanometer carbon nanotubes. Science
> 312 , 1034-1037 (2006).
> 12 M. Whitby, L. Cagnon, M. Thanou, N. Quirke, Enhanced fluid flow through nanoscale carbon pipes. Nano Lett. 8,

8

2632-2637 (2008).  

> 13

E. Secchi, S. Marbach, A. Nigu´ es, D. Stein, A. Siria, L. Bocquet, Massive radius-dependent flow slippage in carbon nanotubes. Nature 537 , 210-213 (2016).  

> 14

S.K. Kannam, B.D. Todd, J.S. Hansen, P.J. Daivis, How fast does water flow in carbon nanotubes? J. Chem. Phys. 

138 , 094701 (2013).  

> 15

A. Michaelides, Slippery when narrow. Nature 573 , 171-172 (2016).  

> 16

N. Kavokine, M.-L. Bocquet, L. Bocquet, Fluctuation-induced quantum friction in nanoscale water flows. Nature 

602 , 84-90 (2022).  

> 17

A.T. Bui, F.L. Thiemann, A. Michaelides, S.J. Cox, Clas-sical quantum friction at water–carbon interfaces. Nano Lett. 23 , 580-587 (2023).  

> 18

A.W.C. Lau, J.B. Sokoloff, Simple Mechanism for the Observed Breakdown of the Nernst-Einstein Relation for Ions in Carbon Nanotubes. Phys. Rev. Lett. 132 , 194001 (2004).  

> 19

J.B. Sokoloff, A.W.C. Lau, Theory of the force of friction acting on water chains flowing through carbon nanotubes. Phys. Rev. E 107 , 055101 (2023).  

> 20

B. Coquinot, L. Bocquet, N. Kavokine, Quantum Feed-back at the Solid-Liquid Interface: Flow-Induced Elec-tronic Current and Its Negative Contribution to Friction. Phys. Rev. X 13 , 011019 (2023).  

> 21

B. Coquinot, A.T. Bui, D. Toquer, A. Michaelides, N. Ka-vokine, S.J. Cox, L. Bocquet, Momentum tunnelling be-tween nanoscale liquid flows. Nature Nanotech. 20 , 397 (2025).  

> 22

A. Ambrosetti, P.L. Silvestrelli, L. Salasnich, Superfluidity meets the solid state: frictionless mass transport through a (5,5) carbon nanotube, Phys. Rev. Lett. 131 , 206301 (2023).  

> 23

S. Kar, R.C. Bindal, P.K. Tewari, Carbon nanotube mem-branes for desalination and water purification: challenges and opportunities, Nano Today 7, 385-389 (2012).  

> 24

M.P. Hodges, E. Bichoutskaia, A.S. Tulegenov, R.J. Wheatley, Extrapolation methods and scaled perturbation theory for determining intermolecular potential energy sur-faces. Quant. Chem. 96 , 537-546 (2004).  

> 25

A. Ambrosetti, P.L. Silvestrelli, Quantum-mechanical water-flow enhancement through a sub-nanometer carbon nanotube, J. Chem. Phys. 159 , 204709 (2023).  

> 26

C.J. Carkner, N.J. Mosey, Slip Mechanisms of Hydroxy-lated α-Al 2O3 (0001)/(0001) Interfaces: A First-Principles Molecular Dynamics Study. J. Phys. Chem. C 114 , 41 (2010).  

> 27

J. Wang, M. Ma, E. Tosatti, Kinetic friction of struc-turally superlubric 2D material interfaces. J. Mech. Phys. Sol. 180 , 105396 (2023).  

> 28

M. Reguzzoni, A. Fasolino, E. Molinari, M.C. Righi Fric-tion by shear deformations in multilayer graphene. J. Phys. Chem. C 116 , 21104-21108 (2012).  

> 29

W. Zhong, D. Tom´ anek, First-principles theory of atomic-scale friction. Phys. Rev. Lett. 64 , 3054 (1990).  

> 30

C. Ma, Y. Chen, G.E. Sun, Q.M. Li, W. Gao, Q. Jiang, Understanding water slippage through carbon nanotubes. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 23 , 14737 (2021).  

> 31

Tocci G., Joly L., Michaelides A. Friction of water on graphene and hexagonal boron nitride from ab initio meth-ods: very different slippage despite very similar interface structures. Nano Lett., 14 , 6872–6877 (2014).  

> 32

A. Ambrosetti, F. Ancilotto, P.L. Silvestrelli, van der Waals-corrected ab initio study of water ice–graphite in-teraction, J. Phys. Chem. C 117 , 321-325 (2013).  

> 33

A. Ambrosetti, G. Palermo, P.L. Silvestrelli, Quantum-mechanically enhanced water flow in subnanometer carbon nanotubes. J. Phys. Chem. C 126 , 20174-20182 (2022).  

> 34

M.S. Dresselhaus, P.C. Eklund, Phonons in carbon nan-otubes, Adv. Phys. 49 , 705-814 (2000).  

> 35

H.W. Zhang, Z. Yao, J.B. Wang, W.X. Zhong, Phonon dispersion analysis of carbon nanotubes based on inter-belt model and symplectic solution method, Int. J. Sol. Struct. 44 , 6428-6449 (2007).  

> 36

J.F. Dobson, A. Ambrosetti, MBD+C: how to include metallic character (Type C non-additivity) into atom-based dispersion energy scheme, J. Chem. Th. Comput. 

19 , 6434–6451 (2023).  

> 37

See Supplemental Material at [URL to be inserted by pub-lisher] for detailed derivation of the model and technical insights. Extended calculations also also reported for im-purity scattering, and scattering on phonons (including bound states) and plasmons (within a second order per-turbative theory).  

> 38

L.D. Landau, E.M. Lifshitz, L.P. Pitaevskii, Course of the-oretical physics, vol. 9: Statistical physics, part 2: theory of the condensed state, Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford, UK (1980).  

> 39

J.F. Allen, A.D. Misener, Flow phenomena in liquid helium II, Nature 142 , 643-644 (1938).  

> 40

I. Morrot-Woisard, E.K. Nguyen, N. Vukadinovic, M. Boero, Structural, electronic and dielectric properties of carbon nanotubes interacting with Co nanoclusters. Car-bon Trends 17 , 100410 (2024).  

> 41

A.Z. Jovanovi´ c, A.S. Dobrota, N.V. Skorodumova, I.A. Pa˘ sti, Reactivity of Stone-Wales defect in graphene lattice - DFT study. FlatChem 42 , 100573 (2023).  

> 42

P.G. Collins, Defects and disorder in carbon nanotubes. Chapter 2, Oxford Handbook of Nanoscience and Tech-nology: Volume 2: Materials: Structures, Properties and Characterization Techniques. A.V. Narlikar and Y.Y. Fu Editors, Oxford University Press (2010).  

> 43

A. Ambrosetti, P.L. Silvestrelli, Adsorption of rare-gas atoms and water on graphite and graphene by van der Waals-corrected density functional theory. J. Phys. Chem. C 115 , 3695-3702 (2011).  

> 44

O. Leenaerts, B. Partoens, F.M. Peeters, Adsorption of H 2 O, NH 3 , CO, NO 2 , and NO on graphene: A first-principles study. Phys. Rev. B 77 , 125416 (2008).  

> 45

A. Tkatchenko, M. Scheffler, Accurate molecular van der Waals interactions from ground-state electron density and free-atom reference data. Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 , 073005 (2009).  

> 46

T. Ando, T., Nakanishi, Impurity scattering in carbon nan-otubes -Absence of back scattering-, J. Phys. Soc. Jap. 67 ,1704-1713 (1998).  

> 47

S. Grimme, Semiempirical GGA-type density functional constructed with a long-range dispersion correction, Comp. Chem. 27 , 1787-1799 (2006).  

> 48

N. Ashcroft, D. Mermin, Solid State Physics. Cengage Learning, Inc. (2021).  

> 49

F. Ebrahimi, F. Ramazani, M. Sahimi, Nanojunction Ef-fects on Water Flow in Carbon Nanotubes. Sci. Rep. 8,7752 (2018).  

> 50

J.P. Perdew, K. Burke, M. Ernzerhof, Generalized gradi-ent approximation made simple, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 3865 (1996). 9 

> 51

A. Ambrosetti, A.M. Reilly, R.A. DiStasio Jr., A. Tkatchenko, Long-range correlation energy calculated from coupled atomic response functions, J. Chem. Phys. 

140 , 18A508 (2014).  

> 52

A. Tkatchenko, A. Ambrosetti, R.A. DiStasio Jr., Inter-atomic methods for the dispersion energy derived from the adiabatic connection fluctuation-dissipation theorem, J. Chem. Phys. 138 , 074106 (2013).  

> 53

M. Ricci, P.L. Silvestrelli, A. Ambrosetti, Exact sum-rule approach to polarizability and asymptotic van der Waals functionals - derivation of exact single-particle bench-marks, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 13 , 8298-8304 (2022).  

> 54

P. Giannozzi, S. Baroni, N. Bonini, M. Calandra, R. Car, C. Cavazzoni, et al. , QUANTUM ESPRESSO: a modular and open-source software project for quantum simulations of materials, J. Phys.: Cond. Matter 21 , 395502 (2009).  

> 55

J.F. Dobson, A. White, A. Rubio, Asymptotics of the Dispersion Interaction: Analytic Benchmarks for van der Waals Energy Functionals. Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 , 073201 (2006).  

> 56

R. Perez, W. Que, Plasmons in isolated single-walled car-bon nanotubes. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 18 , 3197-3216 (2005).  

> 57

V.H. Nguyen, B.H. Nguyen, Quantum theory of plasmon. Adv. Nat. Sci.: Nanosci. Nanotechnol. 5, 025001 (2014).