Title: Observation of roton emission from a quantized vortex

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.06498v1

Published Time: Thu, 09 Apr 2026 00:16:30 GMT

Number of Pages: 6

Markdown Content:
# Observation of roton emission from a quantized vortex 

A. Lester, 1 N. Morrison, 1, 2 F. Novotny, 3 D. Schmoranzer, 3

S. ´O Peat´ ain, 1, 4 V. Zavjalov, 1, 5 V. Tsepelin, 1 and S. Kafanov 1, ∗

> 1

Department of Physics, Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YB, United Kingdom 

> 2

Now at: Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, USA 

> 3

Department of Low Temperature Physics, Charles University, 121 16 Praha 2, Czech Republic 

> 4

Now at: Centre for Quantum Technologies, National University of Singapore, Singapore. 

> 5

Now at: IQM Quantum Computers, Keilaranta 19 D, 02150 Espoo, Finland 

Turbulence in inviscid quantum fluids offers unparalleled access to the universal principles of non-equilibrium dynamics, spanning a vast range of length scales from macroscopic flow down to the individual vortex core. In the zero-temperature limit, the microscopic mechanism by which the turbulent energy cascade terminates in the absence of viscosity remains a foundational challenge in quantum hydrodynamics. While pre-vailing theoretical descriptions prioritize phonon emission, they fail to account for the strong in-teratomic correlations that give rise to the roton minimum in superfluid 4He . Here, we report the direct observation of roton emission from a sin-gle quantized vortex using a high-quality-factor nanomechanical resonator at 10 mK. We identify a sharp onset of dissipation at a critical velocity, and measure the energy loss per cycle, which cor-responds quantitatively to the roton gap energy. Our findings address the long-standing mystery of zero-temperature energy relaxation by estab-lishing roton emission as the primary dissipation channel in strongly correlated quantum liquids. 

Quantum turbulence, the intricate flow of superfluids, provides a unique platform for investigating the universal principles of non-equilibrium fluid dynamics 1,2 . In the zero-temperature limit, where viscous dissipation van-ishes, energy cascades from macroscopic scales down to individual quantized vortices through a Richardson-like mechanism. Although the large-scale statistics of this flow mirror classical Kolmogorov turbulence 3–5 , the mi-croscopic mechanism by which the cascade terminates re-mains a key challenge in quantum hydrodynamics. Over the last decade, high-temperature visualization exper-iments in superfluid 4He have captured reconnections between individual vortices 6, the propagation of vortex rings 7 and the excitation of Kelvin waves 8, which are he-lical excitations moving along vortex cores. These obser-vations have firmly established that energy at the inter-vortex scale is redistributed via such topological events. Recent breakthroughs have enabled the systematic study of Kelvin waves in both classical water 9 and super-fluid helium 10 , providing definitive confirmation of the expected dispersion relation. However, the subsequent Kelvin wave cascade, nonlinear interactions of Kelvin waves, and the ultimate decay mechanism of individual vortices into the bulk fluid have remained experimentally elusive. In previous superfluid experiments, the interac-tion of the vortex core with the bulk excitations (the normal fluid) dominated the decay, thereby masking the fundamental dissipation events critical for establishing a self-consistent theory of quantum turbulence. Conse-quently, this final stage of energy relaxation has been ac-cessible only through theoretical models and numerical simulations. Standard theoretical descriptions, particularly those based on the Gross-Pitaevskii equation (GPE), attribute the ultimate dissipation to the Kelvin wave cascade ter-minating via the emission of elementary excitations, pre-dominantly phonons (sound waves) at wavenumbers com-parable to the inverse core size 11,12 . However, this frame-work remains incomplete for superfluid 4He. The GPE models a weakly interacting Bose gas and ignores the strong interactions that give rise to the roton minimum in the helium excitation spectrum. This minimum gov-erns the breakdown of superfluidity at the Landau critical velocity. For an object travelling in superfluid helium, phonon emission is expected only when the flow veloc-ity exceeds the speed of sound 2, which is approximately three times higher than the Landau threshold. Conse-quently, rotons should lead the dissipation 13 . This rea-soning is supported by a recent GPE model incorporating the roton minimum 14 , in which the simulations demon-strate that roton emission is the predominant dissipation channel above a critical flow velocity, accompanied by the generation of vortices. Furthermore, advanced micro-scopic theories and generalized non-local models suggest that the vortex core in 4He is not a simple density deple-tion, but a structured “cloud” of virtual bound states, primarily rotons. Under dynamic perturbations, these virtual excitations are predicted to destabilize, convert-ing into real, propagating rotons 15 . The latter implies that quantized vortices act as non-thermal sources of el-ementary excitations, a phenomenon conceptually akin to vacuum decay in high-energy physics. Here, we report an experimental probing of single-vortex dynamics in superfluid 4He and demonstrate the emission of rotons from a quantum vortex. Using a high-quality-factor nanomechanical resonator, we trap and drive a single quantum vortex to probe its relaxation mechanism. We identify a distinct breakdown of dissi-pationless motion at a critical velocity, where the energy loss per cycle corresponds quantitatively to the emission of one or two rotons at higher excitation drives. Our find-

> arXiv:2604.06498v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 7 Apr 2026

2              

> FIG. 1. (a) The nanobeam’s actuation and detection circuit (blue) is driven by a vector network analyzer (VNA) via a se-ries of attenuators installed at various cryostat temperature stages. The transmission signal is amplified at room temper-ature. The quartz tuning fork, positioned ∼2 mm above the nanobeam, generates quantum turbulence. The tuning fork is driven and read out using a second VNA circuit (orange).
> (b) The colourmap shows time evolution of two examples of vortex capture and annihilation events recorded using a multi-frequency lock-in amplifier 16 .Darker regions indicate the location of the beam’s resonance. The lowest resonance value near ∼2.116 MHz corresponds to the vortex-free state (VS 0) observed in the absence of vortices 17 .The trapped vortex alters the beam’s tension and increases its resonance frequency. The left panel, with the highest frequency shift (approximately 3 kHz) depicts the most commonly occurring event of a fully trapped vortex, aligned along the entire length of the nanobeam (VS ∥)17 .Right panel illustrates capture and subsequent annihilation of a vortex in the perpendicular configuration (VS ⊥). Cartoons below the colourmap sketch the vortex configurations, including a single (VS ⊥Γ) and dou-ble (VS ⊥Π) vortex branches connecting the beam to the sub-strate.

ings provide direct experimental evidence that challenges the phonon-dominated view of vortex-line relaxation and establishes roton emission as a primary dissipation mech-anism for a single driven vortex in superfluid 4He. These results support the theoretical prediction that quantized vortices can serve as non-thermal sources of roton emis-sion. To resolve the microscopic energy dissipation of asingle quantum vortex, we utilised a doubly-clamped nanobeam resonator ( ℓ = 70 μm, 200 nm × 130 nm cross-section) suspended ∼ 2 μm above a silicon substrate (Fig. 1a). The nanobeam was driven and measured mag-netomotively using a vector network analyzer (VNA). Homodyne detection provided both amplitude and phase information of the device motion. In vacuum at 10 mK, the nanobeam exhibits a high internal quality fac-tor ( Qmech = 5 × 10 5) and linear behaviour at low am-plitudes, providing a baseline for detecting dissipation events in superfluid 4He. We generated a vortex tangle in the surrounding super-fluid 4He using a quartz tuning fork 17 . By monitoring the nanobeam’s resonance frequency in real-time (Fig. 1b), we observed discrete frequency shifts, signalling the trap-ping of individual vortex loops 17 . We categorize these events into three distinct configurations: the vortex-free state (VS 0); the fully trapped parallel state (VS ∥), where the vortex aligns along the entire length of the beam; and the perpendicular state (VS ⊥), where the vortex segment aligns along a part of the beam and connects it to the substrate. A crucial control experiment is the response of the fully trapped state (VS ∥). As shown in (Fig. 2(a)), both the vortex-free (VS 0) and parallel (VS ∥) configurations exhibit a linear response with a quality factor indistin-guishable from the vacuum value across the entire driving range. This result is significant: it demonstrates that the mere presence of a superfluid and a vortex does not in-troduce drag and, more importantly, that acoustic dissi-pation (phonon emission) is negligible at these oscillation frequencies. In stark contrast to the parallel configuration, the per-pendicular states (VS ⊥) reveal a highly nonlinear dissi-pation profile governed by a critical velocity threshold. We identify three distinct dynamical regimes (Fig. 2a): (A) a linear regime at low drives, where the response remains identical to the VS 0 and VS ∥ states; (B) a non-linear regime with the onset of dissipation, where, as the drive increases, the velocity amplitude abruptly saturates at a critical value. The response curve deviates from a Lorentzian profile (Fig. 2b), and the Nyquist plot tran-sitions from a circle to a flattened semi-circle (Fig. 2c), a hallmark of velocity-limited damping.; (C) a nonlinear regime above the critical velocity leading to increased damping with respect to regime A and eventual depin-ning and loss of the vortex. The saturation in regime B indicates the activation of a specific dissipation channel that limits the velocity 18 .The activation threshold is sharp, ruling out continuous damping mechanisms such as viscous drag or acoustic radiation. While Kelvin wave propagation is continuous and dispersive, as recently visualized in 3D by Minowa et al. 10 , nonlinearities may give rise to the appearance of a Kelvin-wave cascade. The latter exhibits a strong energy dependence on the wave amplitude 19 , which should result in a constant velocity plateau but is unlikely to transition 30 100 200 

F [fN] 010 20 30 40 50 60 

> V [mm s −1]

(a) 

ABC

VS 0

VS ‖

VS ⊥Γ

VS ⊥Π

VS ⊥O

−90 −45 0 45 90 

f − f0 [Hz] 0510 15 20 25 30 

> |v| [mm s −1]

(b) ABC

0 10 20 30 

<(v) [mm s −1]

−20 

−10 010 20 

> =(v) [mm s −1]

vc

V

(c)                        

> FIG. 2. (a) Nanobeam resonant velocity amplitude, V, as a function of driving force amplitude. Three distinct dynamical regimes, (A), (B), and (C) for the VS ⊥Γstate, are colour-coded and labelled across all subplots and Fig. 3. Region (A) corresponds to the low-damping regime, where the quality factor ( Q=Qmech ) is limited by beam’s intrinsic mechanical losses. In region (B), the peak velocity saturates at the critical value vc, indicating the onset of additional dissipation. Region (C) denotes the higher-damping regime, where the velocity exceeds vc, and the system shows additional energy loss compared to region (A). Arrows on the (VS ⊥Γ) curve mark the actuation amplitudes corresponding to the Nyquist plots and velocity spectra shown in panels (b) and (c), respectively. (b) Frequency spectra of the nanobeam velocity, centred at the resonance frequency
> f0= 2 .187 644 7 MHz. (c) Nyquist diagrams of the nanobeam velocity. Solid and dashed circles represent fits for the lowest-and higher-damping regimes, respectively. The dotted semicircle indicates the critical velocity vc= 15 .20 ±0.06 mm s −1. The resonant velocity amplitude, V, is given by the intersection of the outer fitted circle with the real axis. Measurements were taken at around 10 mK.

to regime C. To identify the physical origin of the energy thresh-old, we analyzed the power dissipated by the vortex in regime B. Figure 3 displays the energy loss per oscil-lation cycle for various VS ⊥ events. We observed that for the single-branch configuration (VS ⊥Γ, VS ⊥O ), the energy loss plateaus at a value quantitatively consistent with the energy required to emit a roton (∆, where ∆ is the roton gap). Furthermore, we detected events (VS ⊥Π)where two vortex branches connected to the resonator; these showed double the dissipation of the single-branch events (Fig. 3), supporting the roton emission process. Regime C exhibits energy dissipation beyond the crit-ical velocity plateau at higher beam drives. Measure-ments of the (VS ⊥Γ) and (VS ⊥Π) events reveal a grad-ual reduction in the damping force and a tendency to revert towards the behaviour in regime A. Such asymp-totic behaviour is expected when a constant, fixed loss of energy becomes negligible compared to the total en-ergy of the oscillator. The observed reduction is consis-tent with the quantized energy emission of two rotons per period per vortex branch (Fig. 3). Ideally, one might expect the emission of two rotons per period, one dur-ing each half-cycle, immediately past the critical veloc-ity plateau of regime B. However, in our case, the beam has trapped part of the vortex along its length, which results in an asymmetry induced by the Magnus force; consequently, one half-cycle reaches a lower peak veloc-ity that initially remains below the threshold for excita-tion emission. While the periodic motion of the beam can excite Kelvin waves propagating between the beam and substrate, the energy loss via acoustic emission due to Kelvin waves in the absence of a cascade is several or-ders of magnitude below the damping we measure 11 . The development of a Kelvin-wave cascade driven by nonlin-ear interactions would instead produce significant damp-ing with a high-amplitude power-law dependence, 19 forc-ing the system to remain in regime B. Furthermore, the emission of small vortex rings should result in constant damping rather than constant energy, as the ring diam-eter scales with the amplitude of the vortex motion. We observe constant damping behaviour in the (VS ⊥O ) state, which is consistent with non-quantized emission, such as the production of small vortex rings. The observed onset and quantization of energy losses from a single vortex line, trapped between the beam and the substrate, provide experimental evidence that roton emission is a primary mechanism for vortex decay. This finding aligns seamlessly with the established exci-tation framework of superfluid 4He and supports recent modified GPE simulations incorporating the roton mini-mum 14 . Furthermore, the emission of quantized energies, 4

FIG. 3. Energy loss per oscillation cycle for typical VS ⊥ con-figurations. The VS ⊥Γ event corresponds to a Γ-shaped con-figuration, i.e. , a single vortex branch connects the nanobeam to the substrate. The VS ⊥Π event corresponds to a Π-shaped configuration, i.e. , where two vortex branches connect the nanobeam to the substrate. The energy values for the lat-ter event have been scaled by a factor of 1/2. The VS ⊥O

event exhibits a continuous (non-quantized) energy dissipa-tion mechanism, attributed to the continuously growing size of emitted vortex rings. The corresponding critical veloci-ties for these configurations are: vc, Γ = 15 .20 ± 0.06 mm s −1,

vc, Π = 13 .53 ± 0.06 mm s −1, vc,O = 5 .98 ± 0.03 mm s −1.

quantitatively matching those of a roton, corroborates theoretical predictions regarding the internal structure of the vortex core in superfluid 4He. Under dynamic per-turbations, the virtual states formed due to the highly structured density modulations of the core are expected to undergo conversion into real, propagating rotons 15,20 .Overall, our observations address the long-standing puz-zle of dissipation in the zero-temperature limit and bring us closer to a self-consistent picture of quantum turbu-lence. All data used in this paper are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.17635/lancaster/researchdata/xxx, including descriptions of the data sets. The research leading to these results was supported by UKRI EPSRC and STFC (Grants ST/T006773/1, EP/P022197/1 and EP/X004597/1), as well as the Euro-pean Union’s Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Pro-gramme under Grant Agreement No. 824109 (European Microkelvin Platform). D.S. acknowledges support from the Czech Science Foundation, Grant No. 24-12253S. We are greatly thankful to L. Melnikovskiy, A. Golov, L. Skrbek, and V. Eltsov for valuable discussions that contributed to a better understanding of the described phenomenon. We gratefully acknowledge M. T. Noble for selecting the vortex trapping events from the dataset of 17 

used in Fig. 1(b); Prof. Yu. A. Pashkin (Lancaster Univer-sity) for providing access to the dilution refrigerator; and the MSU team, led by Dr. V. A. Krupenin, for supplying the nanomechanical resonator samples initially used in this work. The experiment was designed by S.K. The cryogenic setup was developed and fabricated by S.O.P. and S.K. Low-temperature measurements were carried out by A.L., N.M., F.N., and S.K. Data analysis was performed by V.T., A.L., N.M., F.N., V.Z., D.S., and S.K. Interpre-tation of the results was conducted by V.T., D.S., and S.K.. The manuscript was primarily written by A.L., V.T., D.S., and S.K.  

> ∗

sergey.kafanov@gmail.com  

> 1

Barenghi, C. F., Skrbek, L. & Sreenivasan, K. R. Quan-tum Turbulence (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2023).  

> 2

Tsubota, M. & Kasamatsu, K. Quantum Hydrodynamics and Turbulence (Oxford University Press, 2025).  

> 3

Barenghi, C. F. Is the Reynolds number infinite in super-fluid turbulence? Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena 237 ,2195–2202 (2008).  

> 4

Araki, T., Tsubota, M. & Nemirovskii, S. K. Energy spec-trum of superfluid turbulence with no normal-fluid com-ponent. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 , 145301 (2002).  

> 5

Bradley, D. I. et al. Direct measurement of the energy dissipated by quantum turbulence. Nature Physics 7, 473– 476 (2011).  

> 6

Bewley, G. P., Paoletti, M. S., Sreenivasan, K. R. & Lath-rop, D. P. Characterization of reconnecting vortices in superfluid helium. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105 , 13707–13710 (2008).  

> 7

Tang, Y. et al. Imaging quantized vortex rings in superfluid helium to evaluate quantum dissipation. Nature Commu-nications 14 , 2941 (2023).  

> 8

Fonda, E., Meichle, D. P., Ouellette, N. T., Hormoz, S. & Lathrop, D. P. Direct observation of Kelvin waves excited by quantized vortex reconnection. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 

111 , 4707–4710 (2014).  

> 9

Barckicke, J., Falcon, E. & Gissinger, C. Kelvin wave prop-agation along vortex cores. Nature Physics (2026).  

> 10

Minowa, Y. et al. Direct excitation of kelvin waves on quantized vortices. Nat. Phys. 21 , 233–238 (2025).  

> 11

Vinen, W. F. Decay of superfluid turbulence at a very low temperature: The radiation of sound from a Kelvin wave on a quantized vortex. Phys. Rev. B 64 , 134520 (2001).  

> 12

Kozik, E. & Svistunov, B. Kelvin-wave cascade and de-cay of superfluid turbulence. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 , 035301 (2004).  

> 13

Vinen, W. F. & Niemela, J. J. Quantum turbulence. Jour-nal of Low Temperature Physics 128 , 167–231 (2002).  

> 14

M¨ uller, N. P. & Krstulovic, G. Critical velocity for vortex nucleation and roton emission in a generalized model for 5                                               

> superfluids. Phys. Rev. B 105 , 014515 (2022).
> 15 Amelio, I., Galli, D. E. & Reatto, L. Probing quantum turbulence in 4He by quantum evaporation measurements.
> Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 015302 (2018).
> 16 Bradley, D. I. et al. Probing liquid 4He with quartz tuning forks using a novel multifrequency lock-in technique. J. Low Temp. Phys. 184 , 1080–1091 (2016).
> 17 Guthrie, A. et al. Nanoscale real-time detection of quan-tum vortices at millikelvin temperatures. Nat. Commun.
> 12 , 2645 (2021).
> 18 Skrbek, L. & Sergeev, Y. A. Critical velocities in flows of superfluid 4He. Phys. Fluids 37 , 031305 (2025).
> 19 Eltsov, V. B. & L’vov, V. S. Amplitude of Waves in the Kelvin-Wave Cascade. Jetp Lett. 111 , 389–391 (2020).
> 20 Galli, D. E., Cecchetti, E. & Reatto, L. Rotons and roton wave packets in superfluid 4He. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 5401– 5404 (1996).
> 21 Gu´ enault, A. M. et al. Probing superfluid 4He with high-frequency nanomechanical resonators down to millikelvin temperatures. Phys. Rev. B 100 , 020506 (2019).
> 22 Hauer, B. D., Doolin, C., Beach, K. S. D. &Davis, J. P. A general procedure for thermomechanical calibration of nano/micro-mechanical resonators. Annals of Physics
> 339 , 181–207 (2013).
> METHODS A. Device Description

The nano-electromechanical system (NEMS) device consists of a doubly clamped aluminum-on-silicon ni-tride (Al-on-Si 3N4) composite nanobeam. The beam di-mensions are defined lithographically, with a length ℓ =70 μm and a width w = 200 nm. The 100 nm-thick Si 3N4

layer determines the mechanical properties of the beam, while the aluminum layer enables magnetomotive actua-tion and detection of its motion. The combined thickness of the aluminum and silicon nitride layers is t = 130 nm, corresponding to an effective density of 3062 kg m −3. The vacuum resonance frequency of the fundamental flexural mode is measured to be f0 = 2 .238 MHz. The experi-ment is performed in a brass cell filled with superfluid 

> 4

He at a temperature of 10 mK, mounted on the mixing chamber of a cryogen-free dilution refrigerator.  

> B. Measurement Scheme

We actuated and detected the nanobeam motion us-ing a magnetomotive detection scheme based on the frequency-dependent transmission response measured by a vector network analyzer (VNA). The AC excitation signal, Vout , from the VNA was attenuated at key tem-perature stages of the cryostat, with a total attenuation of A = −110 dB, before passing through the nanome-chanical resonator. In the presence of a perpendicular magnetic field B = 1 T, the resulting current generated a Lorentz force that drove the mechanical motion of the de-vice. The transmitted signal, which included a Faraday voltage component induced by the nanobeam’s motion, was amplified by G = 77 dB using a room-temperature amplifier with an input impedance Z50 = 50 Ω, before ac-quisition by the VNA. The chosen magnetic field strength ensured that magnetomotive damping remained small compared to the intrinsic mechanical damping of the de-vice ( Q−1mech )21 .The measured transmission signal S21 , an example of which is shown in Fig. 4, enables the extraction of key parameters describing the nanobeam motion. The Lorentz force is given by 

F = ξ Sbg 21 

G

Vout 

Z50 

Bℓ, 

where Sbg 21 is the background signal and ξ = 0 .523 is the geometric factor for the fundamental mode of a doubly clamped beam. The factor was determined numerically, utilizing an approach similar to the calculations of the effective mass 22 .The nanobeam velocity, inferred from generated Fara-day electromotive force, is 

v = 2

ξBℓ 

∆S21 

Sbg 21 

Vout 

A ,

where ∆ S21 is the change in transmission due to the beam motion.  

> C. Energy Losses Analysis

The energy dissipation of the nanostring was analyzed using the equation of the linear harmonic oscillator: ¨x + δ ˙x + ω20 x = Fm eiωt ,

where F/m is the amplitude of the driving force normal-ized by the oscillator’s effective mass m, δ is the damping, and ω0 is the resonance frequency. The complex velocity response to the driving force act-ing at the normalized frequency ˜ ω = ωω0

and the corre-sponding Nyquist diagram for the oscillator with a qual-ity factor Q = ω0

δ are given by: 

v = i˜ ωQ (1 − ˜ω2) + i˜ ω V,

where V = Fmω 0

Q is the velocity’s resonant amplitude. The relative phase of the velocity response to the ap-plied force is given by 

φ = arctan 

 1˜ω − ˜ω



Q. 

Velocity’s magnitude at the drive frequency ω is given by 

|v| = V cos φ. 6

FIG. 4. Example of measured transmission magnitude |S21 |

as a function of frequency, obtained using a vector network analyzer (VNA). The key parameters used to calculate the Lorentz force and beam velocity are indicated. (inset) The theoretical Nyquist diagram illustrates the derivation of the energy loss expressions in the system. 

The average power loss of the oscillator driven at the frequency ω is given by 

W = ω

2π

> ω
> 2π

Z

> 0

F cos( ωt ) Re {v} cos( ωt ) d t = 12 F V cos 2 φ == 12 F V 11 + Q2

 1˜ω − ˜ω

2

The power supplied to the oscillator to carry the oscil-lations’ velocity, V, at the resonance frequency will be greater by ∆W = 12 V (FVS ⊥ − FVS 0 ) .

This expression was utilized for calculations of the energy losses per cycle from the data presented as an example in Fig. 2(a).