Title: 2604.22112v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.22112v1

Published Time: Mon, 27 Apr 2026 00:11:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 31

Markdown Content:
1

# Enhanced Tantalum Superconducting Resonator Performance via All -

# Surface Organic Monolayer Passivation 

Harsh Gupta 1#* , Moritz Singer 1#, Benedikt Schoof 1, Anna Cattani -Scholz 1, Shreya Sharma 2,

Luca Rommeis 3, Marc Tornow 1*

> 1

School of Computation, Information and Technology, Department of Electrical Engineering, 

Technical University of Munich, 85748 Garching, Germany 

> 2

Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering,  Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee ,

247667, Roorkee,  India 

> 3

Fraunhofer Institute for Electronic Microsystems and Solid State Technologies (EMFT), 

80686 Munich, Germany 

E-Mail* : harsh.gupta@tum.de, tornow@tum.de 

# Authors contributed equally to this work 

Keywords : superconducting quantum circuits,  tantalum,  two -level system losses, passivation, 

self -assembled monolayers 

Tantalum is a promising platform for superconducting quantum circuits, yet coherence times 

remain limited by dielectric losses from interfacial two -level systems (TLS), exacerbated by 

native oxide regrowth. Here, we implement molecular surface passivation  using self -assembled 

organic monolayers on freshly etched tantalum and silicon in coplanar waveguide resonators. 

Surface characterization  by  contact angle, XPS, FTIR and TEM confirm the formation of 

ordered, nanometer -thick films that suppress oxide format ion. Microwave measurements in the 

~5-9 GHz range reveal internal quality factors up to 1.8×10 6 in the single -photon regime at 100 

mK, representing a ~140% improvement over untreated devices with native oxide. Power and 

temperature dependent measurements attribute this enhancement to reduced TLS -induced 

losses. These results demonstrate that molecul ar passivation effectively engineers low -loss 

interfaces and provides a scalable route toward high -coherence superconducting quantum 

devices. 2

1. Introduction 

Superconducting quantum technologies, which primarily utilize Josephson junctions (JJs) and 

coplanar waveguide (CPW) microwave resonators, are promising in numerous applications 

such as quantum memory ,[1 –3]  sensing [4 –7]  and superconducting qubits .[8 –13]  For 

superconducting qubits, artificial atoms can be realized with JJs coupled to planar capacitances 

and microwave resonators, which serve for qubit state manipulation and readout .[14 –19]  In order 

to develop practical qubits,  the qubit states need to have the longest possible coherence times ,

a critical factor affected and limited by various losses, primarily two -level system (TLS) and 

quasiparticle (QP) losses .[19 –23]  Superconducting CPW resonators can be a reliable tool for 

characterizing and understanding different losses in superconducting quantum circuits .[20,24 –27] 

The behavior of these losses can be quantified by the internal quality factor ( Qi) of  these 

microwave  resonators and their corresponding resonant frequencies, when characterized at 

various input powers and temperatures. 

TLS losses in quantum circuits  can  arise  from defects, tunnelling atoms, dangling bonds, 

hydrogen defects or collective motions of small atomic groups; they are primarily  hosted by 

polar impurities (like  -OH) and/or oxygen bridges in dielectric native oxides formed on 

superconductor metal -to -air and substrate -to -air interfaces upon air exposure .[20,28]  TLS losses 

are significantly dominating and are the limiting factor in the low power and low temperature 

regime of operation for qubits .[20,22]  In contrast,  quasiparticles (QPs) are intrinsic to the 

superconductor itself, either thermally excited with increase in temperature or generated as non -

equilibrium QPs by stray radiation  or  input microwave power .[29 –33]  As the QP density increases, 

the change in surface impedance affects the resonant frequency and reduces the  Qi of  the 

resonators .[29,33 –35]  From a materials aspect, a continuous effort has been made to explore 

different superconductors such as aluminum, niobium, titanium nitride, rhenium etc. to improve 

the performance of quantum circuits . [36,37]  However, these materials present a challenge owing 

to high dielectric losses from their native oxides at the metal -air interface .[36,38]  This  has  recently 

led to an increased interest in tantalum, especially in its α -phase, as promising alternative 

superconducting material for quantum circuits, with reported milliseconds coherence times .[39 – 

> 44]

It is reported that, tantalum has fewer sub -oxides and a smoother interface than niobium and 

its oxide; further, tantalum oxide favors surfaces with lesser oxygen dangling bonds compared 

to niobium oxide .[45 –47]  These characteristics are held responsible for lower measured dielectric 

TLS losses in tantalum and hence improved performance. Even though tantalum offers better 

material aspects than niobium, it is still limited by native oxide formation at the metal -ai r and 

substrate -air interfaces.  In the case of tantalum, the native TaO x is commonly removed by 

selective wet etching, e.g., in Buffered -Oxide Etch (BOE) solution, but this does not restrict the 

subsequent re -growth of native oxide.  To address this challen ge,  one can suppress the regrowth 

of native oxides at the various interfaces by capping the freshly etched surface s with a suitable 

passivation layer. For example, recently, the improvement of Nb qubits’ coherence times by 

encapsulating the structures with Ta or Au metallic thin -films has been reported .[48,49]  In the 

case of tantalum, Chang  et al.  reported noble metal encapsulation of resonators leading to 

suppressed native oxide growth ,[50]  which however was limited to the planar, horizontal Ta 

surface plane on top of the resonators. The vertical edges of the devices could not be 

covered/passivated using the employed resonator fabrication and metal encapsulation process, 

resulting in a still  limited device performance. 3

This problem calls for a passivation process which can cap all exposed resonator surfaces, 

including the edges. A facile and convenient methodology is using solution -based growth of 

organic molecule self -assembled monolayers (SAMs), which would readily pas sivate all 

accessible surfaces (substrate -air and metal -air interface)  - both all around the entire resonator 

structure and on the open substrate surfaces nearby.  SAMs consist of a single molecular layer, 

a few nanometers thick, composed of short organic m olecules organized in a well -defined, 

closely packed, 2D crystalline -like structure. Their formation is driven by the intrinsic self -

assembly behavior of these molecules, primarily governed by van der Waals and hydrophobic 

interactions, hydrogen bonding an d chemisorption at the substrate surface .[51,52]  Well 

established classes of SAM -forming molecules, distinguished by their surface -binding 

headgroups, include alkenes, thiols, silanes, carboxylic acids and phosphonic acids .[51 –54]  They 

can tailor numerous properties such as wettability, work function and chemical reactivity of 

different materials. This led to the application of SAMs in diverse fields including surface 

passivation, nanotechnology, electronic devices and biosensors .[55 –59]  Recently, Alghadeer  et al. 

have reported the effect of passivation of niobium resonators using octatrichlorosilane 

molecules ,[60]  also  we have demonstrated  that a  high temporal stability of Nb resonators can be 

achieved by organophosphonate SAM passivation .[27]  Despite a few reports on the SAM -based 

functionalization of tantalum oxide ,[61 –64]  the broader impact of organic SAM coatings on 

conventional elemental superconductors, here in particular on tantalum, towards quantum 

technologies has remained largely unexplored. Moreover, realizing single molecule SAM 

growth on both superconducting tant alum films and silicon substrates for their simultaneous 

passivation poses a significant materials integration challenge. 

In this work, we investigate the influence of alkene -based SAM passivation on the performance 

of  α-tantalum CPW microwave resonators. Alkene SAMs are employed for the growth of well -

ordered molecular layers that simultaneously passivate both the metal -air (tantalum -air) and 

substrate -air (silicon -air) interfaces, thereby inhibiting the re -growth of nat ive oxides. We 

systematically analyze the internal quality factors, loss mechanisms and resonant frequency 

shifts of the resonators as a function of input pow er and temperature. Comparative studies are 

performed between resonators featuring this alkene SAM passivation and two types of reference 

resonators: those covered by their native oxide and those after oxide removal but without 

subsequent passivation. The  structural and chemical modifications induced by SAM formation 

are further corroborated using surface analytical techniques, including contact angle 

measurement s, X -ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Fourier -transform infrared (FTIR) 

spectroscopy and cr oss -sectional TEM imaging.  We show that organic self -assembled 

monolayers can simultaneously passivate the Si -air and Ta -air interfaces, thereby significantly 

reducing TLS losses and enhancing quality factors of Ta resonators in the single -photon regime. 

We anticipate this molecular -level approach to offer a scalable route to the interface engineering 

of next -generation superconducting quantum devices based on tantalum. 

2.  Results and discussion 

2.1.  SAM growth and material characterizations 

We deposited α -tantalum thin films on high -resistivity Si (100) at room temperature, mediated 

by a ~5nm niobium seed layer below the tantalum film.  Grazing  angle incident -X-ray 

diffraction  (GI -XRD ) spectra ( Fig ure  S1a) clearly show the dominance of the α -phase within 4

the Ta thin films . Measurements of  the  Ta film’s  critical temperature and residual resistance 

ratio (RRR = R 270K /R 5K ) yields a T c of ~4.2K ( Fig ure  S1b) and an RRR of approximately 2, 

respectively, which agrees with reported values for α -tantalum thin films .[39,42]  In the following, 

and throughout this work, samples that did not undergo BOE treatment following fabrication 

are designated as ‘ native oxide’ , those treated exclusively with BOE as ‘ unpassivated’ , and 

those subjected to SAM coating after BOE treatment as ‘ passivated’ .

Figure 1 . (a) Schematic showing the cross -section of a resonator, before (left) and after (right) 

passivation of the two different, exposed surfaces (note that the thin Nb seed layer below Ta is 

not included  in the image ); (b) Growth mechanism for an alkene SAM on H -terminated Si 

(hydrosilylation), mediated by thermal activation of the surface; (c) Proposed growth 

mechanism on hydroxylated ( -OH terminated) Ta native oxide. 5

Self -assembled monolayers (SAMs) were prepared on Si and Ta substrates following BOE 

etching . On Si, t his step  removes the native oxide  and yields a n H-terminated  surface.  Although 

the substrates were briefly exposed to ambient air prior to transfer into the reaction chamber for 

SAM growth, hydrogen -terminated Si is known to exhibit resistance to oxidation over short air 

exposure times, preserving its surface reactivity upon  activation. Alkene attachment on Si then 

proceeds via thermally induced desorption of surface hydrogen atoms by homolytic bond 

cleavage, creating Si dangling bonds that act as reactive sites for covalent grafting of alkene 

molecules ( Fig ure  1b ).[53,65]  In contrast, brief air exposure of Ta  would  result  in the spontaneous 

re -formation of a thin, presumably non -stoichiometric native oxide layer. This oxide layer ,

however , can be exploited advantageously, as its unsaturated nature facilitates surface 

hydroxylation, which likewise provides reactive sites for alkene binding upon thermal 

activation ( Fig ure  1c). Such thermally assisted alkene grafting mechanisms on hydroxylated 

metal oxide surfaces have been widely reported in the literature .[53,64,66] 

Fig ure  2. (a)  Contact angle values for passivated and unpassivated Si and Ta surfaces; a 

significant increase in hydrophobicity post passivation is evident. ( b) background subtracted 

FTIR spectra for passivated Si and Ta showing the presence of different vibrational modes of 

alkyl molecules on the surface. Labels at the peaks indicate: the symmetric stretch vibration 

(CH 2,s ) and the asymmetric stretch vibration (CH 2,a ) of the methylene -groups of the molecules. 

(c) Cross -sectional TEM image with close -up on the right, of a  passivated Ta thin film; a SAM 

of thickness ~1.8nm, sandwiched between the thin native oxide and a protective layer used for 

FIB preparation  can be discerned .6

To assess the structural integrity and quality of the SAMs, alkene monolayers were first grown 

on planar silicon and tantalum substrates. Subsequently, AFM images were recorded in tapping 

mode to determine the surface morphology of the SAMs. Specifically,  the surface roughness 

values for passivated Si and Ta films were estimated:  we measured root mean squared (RMS) 

roughness values for passivated Si and Ta thin films of 0.7±0.1nm and 0.9±0.2nm, respectively 

(see, Fig ure  S3). This confirms the uniform and co nformal growth of alkene SAMs on Si and 

Ta.  Water contact angle measurements were equally performed on both substrate types to probe 

changes in surface wettability following alkene SAM deposition. Both surfaces exhibited 

contact angles ~100° post SAM growth, signifying a transition from hydrophilic  to distinct 

hydrophobic behavior as presented in  Figure  2a . The pronounced hydrophobicity suggests the 

formation of densely packed, well -ordered aliphatic SAMs terminated with methyl groups. The 

high contact angl e observed for SAM -passivated Ta and Si surfaces further suggests enhanced 

resistance to humidity -induced surface oxidation.  FTIR spectra of SAM -passivated silicon and 

tantalum thin films exhibit characteristic absorption bands in the 2750 -3050 cm -1 range, 

corresponding to C -H stretching vibrations of aliphatic hydrocarbons (Fig ure  2b). The 

symmetric and asymmetric CH₂ stretching modes appear at 2854 cm -1 and 2923 cm -1 for 

tantalum and at 2854 cm -1 and 2924 cm -1 for silicon,  respectively,  consistent with we ll -ordered 

and uniform octadecene SAMs on both surfaces  [53,67] . To estimate the thickness of our SAMs 

grown on planar Si and Ta thin films ellipsometry measurements were conducted. The SAM 

layers were fitted using Cauchy’s model with a refractive index value of 1.5 ,[68]  which yielded 

a measured film thickness of  ~2  nm. The presence of the SAM layer on the native tantalum 

oxide surface was further confirmed by cross -sectional TEM imaging (Fig ure  2c), which 

revealed a uniform organic layer with an average thickness of approximately 1.8 nm on 

tantalum, which is in close agreement with ellipsometry. Complementary cross -sectional 

Electron energy loss spectroscopy  (EELS ) elemental mapping corroborated these observations, 

showing a pronounced carbon signal localized at the SAM -oxide interface ( Figure  S5), 

consistent with th e presence of the alkene monolayer, along with signals from the underlying 

elemental constituents. 

To independently assess the effect of passivation on tantalum thin films, the surface chemical 

composition was examined using X -ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), as summarized in 

Fig ure  3. Unpassivated, passivated, and native -oxide Ta thin films were analyzed, with 

elemental constituents identified from survey spectra. Narrow -scan Ta 4f spectra were 

subsequently acquired in the 18 -34 eV range for all samples. Upon Shirley background 

correction and peak fitting, two symmetric doublets were attributed to  oxidized tantalum 

species (Ta 2O5 and TaO 2), while the asymmetric doublet with a 4f 7/2  component at ~21.8 eV 

corresponded to metallic Ta. The 4f 7/2  components at ~24.6 eV and ~27.1 eV were previously 

assigned to TaO 2 and Ta 2O5, respectively .[47,69,70]  Each oxidation state exhibits the expected 

spin -orbit splitting characteristic of the Ta 4 f level. Notably, the relative Ta signal intensity in 

the XPS spectra ( Figure  3g) is markedly attenuated for the native -oxide sample compared to 

the passivated film, indicating a thicker oxide layer on the former and a thinner oxide on the 

latter. The reduced oxide thickness in the passivated sample suggests that the alkene SAM 

eff ectively limits surface re -oxidation. Further, we analyze the C -1s spectra for all the s amples 

to probe the presence of alkene  molecules on passivated samples.  C 1s spectra  for passivated 

resonators  show significantly higher intensity in comparison to others , indicating the presence 7

of organic layer  (Figure S 10 ).  Each spectra  is deconvoluted with four peaks ascribed to C -C

(corresponding to sp 3 carbon), C=O and  -O-C=O .[71,72]  All samples exhibited a prominent 

contribution from C -C bonded carbon, predominantly attributed to adventitious carbon. 

Notably, passivated films demonstrated a significantly elevated C -C relative contribution 

(Fig ure  3h), which is likely due to the presence of alkene molecules, which comprise a 

significant portion of sp³ -hybridized carbon. For details regarding the fitting routine see 

Supporting Information, section  “X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy ”. 

Figure 3 . Background  corrected  and normalized  XPS  spectra corresponding to Ta 4f and C 1s 

for (a, d)  alkene -passivated Ta  (b, e) unpassivated Ta and (c, f)  Ta films with native oxide ,

respectively. Different oxidation states for Ta (Ta 0: elemental Ta, TaO 2 and Ta 2O5) with spin -

orbit coupled doublet (4f 7/2  and 4f 5/2 ) are observed . Different components corresponding to 

different oxidation states of C 1s are observed. (g): Relative fractional contribution for Ta 0

(elemental tantalum), normalized with respect to native oxide sample  (set as zero) ; passivated 

films show significantly higher elemental Ta contributions. (h): Relative fractional contribution 

of C -C bonds; passivated film shows significantly higher C -C contribution, attributed to 

presence of alkene molecules. 8

2.2  Microwave measurements 

2.2.1 Power dependent Q i measurements 

Microwave measurements using a vector network analyzer (VNA) were performed at 100 mK 

on all tantalum coplanar waveguide (CPW) resonators, arranged in hanger geometry (for 

resonator design, see  Figure S2), with resonant frequencies in the ~5 -9 GHz range. The internal 

quality factors ( Qᵢ) were subsequently extracted to assess resonator performance (for details, 

see Supporting Information:  Microwave measurement procedure and data analysis ), with  Qᵢ

inversely related to the internal loss ( δᵢ = 1/Q ᵢ).  Figure 4 a presents the log -log variation of  Qᵢ

as function of mean photon number  ⟨n⟩, reflecti ng the input power to the resonator chip. With 

increasing input power,  Qi rises significantly due to TLS saturation. At higher power ( ⟨n⟩>10 6), 

i.e., beyond the range of our measurements,  Qi is anticipated to approach a plateau, indicating 

the emergence of a small, power -independent loss mechanism, such as quasiparticle generation 

or other, intrinsic losses. This behavior aligns with the understanding that at low powers, TLS -

induced losses dom inate over  quasiparticles  and other, power -independent mechanisms. 

Figure 4 . (a) Mean internal quality factor (Q i) for Ta resonators at 100 mK against mean 

photon number, for passivated, unpassivated and resonators with native oxide. The shaded 

region along the data points in the plot denotes the 95% confidence interval of the data. (b) Q i

at low input power ( 

⟨n⟩∼1) and (c) high input power ( 

⟨n⟩∼10 6). Distinct behavioral trends of 

the resonators in the low and high -power regimes can be discerned.  Error bars denote the 

standard deviation from averaging over all resonators. 

In the single -photon regime, tantalum resonators with native oxide exhibit a mean  Qi of 

0.78×10 6. Following buffered oxide etch (BOE) treatment,  Qi increases to 1.12×10 6, and further 

improves to 1.85×10 6 after SAM passivation. This corresponds to an enhancement of 

approximately 140% compared to the native oxide devices, highlighting the efficacy of 

molecular passivation in mitigating surface -related losses. Interestingly, in the high -power 

regime  (⟨n⟩>10 6), resonators with native oxide exhibit the highest  Qi, in contrast to their 

behavior at low powers. This inversion suggests that TLS -related losses are substantially 9

suppressed in the passivated devices, while the residual, power -independent losses are 

heightened in passivated and unpassivated resonators. We attribute these additional losses to 

possibly originate in hydride formation post BOE etching, which has been sh own to affect the 

performance of tantalum resonators .[73]  At a fixed low temperature and low excitation power, 

Qi is primarily limited by TLS losses. The  Qi behavior with input excitation power can be 

described by equation 1 :[74]  

> 1
> 𝑄 𝑖 (𝑛 )

= 1

> 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆
> 0

[  

> tanh (ℏ𝜔
> 2𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 )
> √1+(𝑛
> 𝑛 𝑐 )𝛽

]

+ 1

> 𝑄 𝑜𝑡 ℎ𝑒𝑟

….1 

where  ℏ is the reduced Planck constant , n is the average photon number,  T is the temperature, 

𝜔  is the angular frequency of the resonator,  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

is the low -power TLS -limited quality factor 

(equivalent to the inverse of the characteristic TLS loss),  𝑘 𝐵  is the Boltzmann constant,  nc is 

the critical photon number corresponding to the saturation power for TLS s, β is an empirical 

exponent that controls how the TLS loss saturates with photon number, and  Qother  denotes 

contributions from other, power -independent losses. We here focus on the extraction of  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆 

> 0

as it reveals differences in TLS losses in the resonators under different treatments. In principle, 

𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

can be obtained by fitting equation 1 to the data, however, as we do not see a clear 

saturation behavior of  Qi at the highest powers we probe, it becomes difficult to unambiguously 

distinguish between different loss channels contributing at different powers. Such approach 

might therefore lead to overestimated values or increased variability of TLS losses as it doe s

not fully account for other loss mechanisms. 

Therefore, to identify  and interpret the underlying loss mechanisms more clearly, we performed 

additional temperature -dependent measurements at various input powers, providing a

comprehensive  database  to separate different contributions to the total loss. In superconducting 

microwave resonators, temperature -dependent shifts in the resonant frequency and changes in 

internal dissipation arise from both TLS and quasiparticle dynamics. TLS in dielectrics o r at 

interfaces modify the complex dielectric function, with  Re[ εTLS (ω,T)]  pro ducing dispersive 

frequency shifts and  Im[ εTLS (ω,T)]  contributing to dielectric loss (1/ Qi), while thermally or non -

thermally generated quasiparticles reduce the Cooper pair density, increasing kinetic inductance 

(Lk) and lowering the resonant frequency ( fr ⍺ 1/√L k). Power -independent losses from residual 

quasiparticles, surface defects, and trapped magnetic flux further contribute to baseline 

dissipation .[22,29,75]  To systematically probe these effects, we measured the resonant frequency 

(fr) and  Qi of the resonators across a temperature range from 100 mK to 900 mK at three distinct 

input powers ( -150,  -120 and  -90 dBm). These measurements allow us to track the evolution of 

both  fr and  Qi with temperature and excitation power, thereby providing deeper insight into the 

relative dominance and interplay of different loss channels under varying experimental 

conditions. 

2.2.2  Temperature dependent  Δfr /f r measurements 

At a low input power of  -150 dBm, at low temperatures, TLS defects  already  alter the dielectric 

response in a temperature -dependent manner, producing a characteristic fractional shift in the 

resonator’s frequency. However, as the temperature approaches and exceeds ~500 mK, a 

pronounced increase in the relative frequency change em erges ( Fig ure  5). This behavior is 10 

consistent with the expected thermally activated generation of quasiparticles which produces a 

substantial red shift in the resonance frequency across all resonator devices. The fractional 

resonant frequency shift ( Δfr /f r) can be expressed as sum of contributions from TLS and 

quasiparticle -induced changes (eq uation  2) :[34,74,75] 

(∆𝑓 𝑟 (𝑇 )

> 𝑓 𝑟

) = (∆𝑓 𝑟 (𝑇 )

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑇𝐿𝑆  + (∆𝑓 𝑟 (𝑇 )

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑄𝑃  …2 

where,  (∆𝑓 𝑟 (𝑇 )

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑇𝐿𝑆  is the contribution from the TLS channel and  (∆𝑓 𝑟 (𝑇 )

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑄𝑃  is the contribution 

from the QP channel, both defined as follows, respectively: 

(∆𝑓 𝑟 

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑇𝐿𝑆  = 1 

> 𝜋 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆
> 0

[𝑅𝑒  𝛹 (1 

> 2

+ 𝑖 ℏ𝜔 

> 2𝜋 𝑘 𝐵 𝑇

) − ln  ( ℏ𝜔 

> 2𝜋𝑘 𝐵 𝑇

)] …2a 

(∆𝑓 𝑟 

> 𝑓 𝑟

)𝑄𝑃  = − 𝛼 

> 2
> ∆𝐿 𝑘
> 𝐿 𝑘

= − 𝛼  

> 2
> ∆
> 𝑘 𝐵 𝑇

[sinh  ∆

> 𝑘 𝐵 𝑇

]−1

...2b 

Figure 5 . Mean fractional frequency shift ( Δf r/f r) as a function of temperature, measured at 

excitation powers of  -150 dBm of (a) passivated Ta resonators (b) unpassivated resonators and 

(c) native oxide resonators; the solid line represents the fit to the averaged data (red dots) using 

eq. 2; the thin l ight -red shaded region shows the 95% confidence interval of the data for 

different resonators. The corresponding weights characterizing the different loss contributions 

for passivated resonators, unpassivated resonators and native oxide resonators are disp layed 

in d), e) and f), respectively. All normalized weights show a clear dominance of TLS 

contributions for lower temperatures and QP -dominated frequency shifts at higher 

temperatures . Note that from (d) through (e) to (f), the transition (cross -over) between both 

regions of dominance shifts towards higher temperatures. 11 

Herein,  Ψ is the digamma  function , 𝛥  is the superconducting gap at zero temperature and 

⍺ is 

the fraction of the kinetic inductance with respect to the total inductance . To identify the 

dominant loss channel at different temperatures for the  Δf r/f r shift, we  here introduce normalized 

weights  (wTLS  and  wQP ), assigned to each term on the right hand -side of eq uation  2,  constrained 

such that  wTLS  + w QP =1.  Since eq uation  2 has only two independent parameters ( 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

and 

⍺), 

this formulation facilitates a robust extraction of  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

. Figure 5 presents the fitting of  Δf r/f r

against the temperature using eq uation  2, along with the normalized weights for the different 

contributions. 

Across all devices, the resonant frequency exhibits  a characteristic  behaviour  with temperature ,

consistent with  growing  thermal saturation of  TLSs upon  increasing the temperature from 100 

mK to several hundred mK (visible as a weak increase ), followed by a  strong , monotonic 

decrease  above ~500 mK , as quasiparticle generation increases the kinetic inductance. Near the 

superconducting transition, the rapid growth in quasiparticle density produces  this  pronounced 

frequency lowering. Strikingly, native oxide r esonators show a substantially larger initial 

frequency increase than either unpassivated or passivated devices, indicating that their 

temperature response is dominated by TLS -mediated dielectric contributions, in agreement with 

the weighted loss -channel a nalysis as discussed further below.  The evolution of the weights 

highlights the crossover between the dominant loss channels: from dominating TLS 

contribution to QP contribution with increase in temperature, due to an increased thermal QP 

density in the re sonators.  We also note  that passivated resonators undergo a transition from 

TLS -dominated to QP -dominated behaviour at lower temperatures compared to unpassivated 

and even more, native oxide resonators. This shift can be attributed to the reduced TLS losses 

in passivated devices , which in effect let quasiparticle losses dominate at already lower 

temperatures. This trend becomes directly evident in the comparison  presented in  Fig ure  6.

Finally,  Figure 7  summarizes all  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

and 

⍺ values as extracted from the fits to eq uation  2, for 

all different resonator types. We obtain the highest  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

value for the passivated resonators, 

followed by the unpassivated and native oxide resonators , as could be already anticipated from 

the low -power behaviour presented in Fig ure  4. In contrast, the actual surface treatment has 

apparently low, or no significant, impact on the kinetic inductance fraction 

⍺: all resonators 

show a similar value of about  0.016 -0.018  (see, Fig ure  7b). 12 

Figure 6 . Normalized weights for  Δfr /f r against temperature at  -150 dBm for different 

resonators; a clear difference in transition from a TLS dominated to a QP dominated region is 

observable.  Passivated resonators undergo a transition from TLS -dominated to QP -dominated 

behaviour at lower temperatures compared to unpassivated and native o xide resonators , the 

black arrow denote s the shift in transition between TLS and QP  dominated  losses for different 

resonators .

Figure 7 . Parameters  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

and 

⍺, extracted for all resonator devices from the fitting of 

fractional frequency shifts against temperature, according to eq. 2: (a)  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

, passivated 

resonators show highest  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

values indicating least losses due to TLS. (b) 

⍺, all resonators 

show a similar kinetic inductance fraction  Error bars denote the standard deviation  obtained 

by fitting  from averaging over all resonators. 

2.2.3  Temperature dependent Q i measurements 

Fig ure  8 shows the variation of  Qi with temperature at different excitation powers for all  three 

resonator  types . At low excitation powers ( -150 dBm), all resonators exhibit an initial increase 

in  Qi with rising temperature, consistent with the growing thermal saturation of TLSs, which 

dominates the losses in the low -temperature range. At higher temperatures, quasiparticle 

excitations in the superconducting film become the primary loss mechanism, resulting in a 

pronounced decrease of  Qi as the system approaches the superconducting transit ion.  To further 

differentiate the different loss mechanisms, we describe the resonator losses over a wide range 

of temperatures and microwave powers with the following model. The overall  Qi for resonators 

can be expressed as per equation 3:  1 

> 𝑄 𝑖 (𝑛 ,𝑇 )

= 1 

> 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆 (𝑛 ,𝑇 )

+ 1 

> 𝑄 𝑄𝑃 (𝑇 )

+ 1

> 𝑄 𝑜𝑡 ℎ𝑒𝑟

…3 13 

where,  QTLS  (n,T), Q QP  (T) , and  𝑄 𝑜𝑡 ℎ𝑒𝑟  are the contributing quality factor parameters associated 

with TLS loss, quasiparticle loss and other , power -independent loss.  QTLS  (n,T)  and  QQP  (T)  can 

be defined as follows :[74]  

> 1
> 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆 (𝑛 ,𝑇 )

= 1 

> 𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆
> 0

[ tanh (ℏ𝜔  2𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 ⁄ )    

> √1+(𝑛 𝛽
> 𝐷 𝑇 𝜂 ⁄)tanh (ℏ𝜔 2𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 ⁄)

] …3a  

> 1
> 𝑄 𝑄𝑃 (𝑇 )

= 1 

> 𝑄 𝑄𝑃
> 0

[sinh (ℏ𝜔  2𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 ⁄ ) 𝐾 0(ℏ𝜔  2𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 ⁄ )   

> 𝑒 (∆0𝑘 𝐵 𝑇 ⁄)

] …3b 

Figure 8 . Mean internal quality factor (Q ᵢ) of Ta resonators as a function of temperature, 

measured at excitation powers of  -150 dBm,  -120 dBm, and  -90 dBm for (a) passivated 

resonators (b) unpassivated resonators and (c) native oxide resonators; the solid lines 

represent the fits to the data usin g equation  3, and the shaded regions show the 95% C.I. of the 

data for different resonators. 

Herein,  D,  𝜂  parametrize the TLS saturation  with temperature and  𝛽  parametrize s the saturation 

with  input power , 𝑄 𝑄𝑃  

> 0

is the overall characteristic quasiparticle loss and  𝐾 0 is the zeroth order 

modified Bessel function.  Consistent with the trend observed in the  Δf r/f r fits, we find that 

passivated resonators exhibit the highest  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

, followed by unpassivated and native -oxide 

resonators ( fig ure  9a ), indicating reduced TLS -related losses in the passivated devices. Notably, 

although the ordering of  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

extracted from both  Δf r/f r (T)  and  Qi (T)  analyses is the same,  the 

values obtained from  the  Qi (T)  analysis  are typically 10 –20% lower . This discrepancy  likely 

arises because the  Δf r/f r (T)  method is also sensitive to off -resonant TLS s that predominantly 

contribute to frequency shifts rather than to internal loss, leading to a systematically higher 

inferred  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

.[75]  On the other hand, the parameter  Qother , inverse of which accounts for power -

independent losses, shows its highest value for native oxide resonators (fig ure  9b), consistent 

with the observation made for the  Qi(n)  measurements discussed previously. In 

superconducting resonators,  Qother  reflects the inverse of a residual, power -independent loss 

floor that persists once TLS losses are saturated at high excitation powers. The observed 

degradation of  Qother  following BOE exposure for both passivated and unpassivated resonators 

therefore points to an increase in non -TLS loss channels or power -independent losses. The lack 

of improvement with surface passivation al ong with no statistically significant difference in 14 

Qother  between passivated and unpassivated resonators further supports the interpretation, that 

these losses do not arise from surface TLSs associated with native or regrown oxides. Instead, 

these are consistent with the introduction of bulk or interface -related  non -TLS losses 

presumably induced during BOE etching. They may have originated from hydride formation or 

hydrogen incorporation within the tantalum films during this step, which accompanies native 

oxide removal .[62,73]  In our case, we thus attribute the excess loss observed in the high -power 

regime primarily to these non -TLS mechanisms that elevate the residual loss floor, hence 

reducing  Qother .

Figure 9 . Loss -related quality factor parameters extracted for all resonator devices from the 

fitting of Q i against temperature at different powers, according to eq. 3: (a)  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

, passivated 

resonators show highest  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

values  - a trend similar to the one obtained using fractional 

frequency shift fitting, see Fig.  7. (b) Q other , native oxide resonators show highest values, 

suggesting least power independent losses. (c)  𝑄 𝑄𝑃  

> 0

, all resonators show similar characteristic 

quasiparticle loss.  Error bars denote the standard deviation  obtained by fitting  from averaging 

over all resonators. 

However, we do not observe  any significant difference in the parameter  𝑄 𝑄𝑃  

> 0

, which accounts 

for the primary magnitude of quasiparticle losses, indicating no notable change in 

superconducting properties post surface passivation. 

As discussed for the frequency shifts above,  also evaluating the  Qi data with normalized weights 

can give deeper insight into the  evolution of  different contributing loss mechanisms at different 

temperatures and powers. Hence, we equally assign normalized weights ( wTLS , w QP  and  wother )15 

to each term on the right hand -side of eq uation  3, such that  wTLS  + w QP  + wother =1 , i.e.,  a higher 

value of  w indicates a higher relative contribution.  We find that all resonators are dominated by 

TLS losses at low power and low temperature, while QP losses become increasingly significant 

as soon as the TLSs saturate and thermally generated QPs emerge at higher temperatures, as 

shown in  Fig ure  10 .

Although the passivated resonators exhibit the highest  𝑄 𝑇𝐿𝑆  

> 0

, the extracted TLS weights indicate 

that device performance at low power and low temperature remains limited primarily by TLS 

dissipation. As the drive power increases, the saturation of TLSs progressively reduces their 

contribution, allowing other loss c hannels to dominate; at  -90 dBm, these non -TLS mechanisms, 

mainly  Qother  (power -independent losses) become the leading source of dissipation at low 

temperatures. We also find that the onset of QP -dominated loss shifts to lower temperatures as 

the drive power increases ( Fig ure  S9). This trend is consistent with microwave -induced 

generation of additional quasiparticles, whose density is expected to scale approximately with 

the square root of the input power .[76]  A more detailed investigation would require 

measurements at higher powers and with finer power resolution, which however lies beyond 

the scope of the present work. 

Figure 10 . (a), (b) and (c) show the normalized weights of Q i as a function of temperature, for 

passivated resonators at  -90 dBm,  -120dBm and  -150 dBm, respectively. (d), (e) and (f) show 

the normalized weights of Q i for unpassivated resonators at  -90 dBm,  -120dBm and  -150 dBm 

and (g), (h) and (i) show the normalized weights of Q i for native oxide resonators at  -90 dBm, 

-120dBm and  -150 dBm, respectively.  For all resonators, the normalized weights show a clear ly 

largest  contribution  of the TLS at lower temperatures a nd low powers, and a  largest  QP 16 

contribution  at higher temperatures, whereas with increasing power other contributions start 

to increase  at low temperatures, as TLSs starts to saturate. 

3. Conclusion 

In summary, we have demonstrated the simultaneous passivation of Si -air and Ta -air interfaces 

on superconducting resonator chips using organic self -assembled monolayers. This approach 

yields a marked enhancement in device performance, with passivated Ta re sonators exhibiting 

substantially higher quality factors in the single -photon regime compared to their unpassivated 

or native -oxide counterparts. The improvement is driven by a reduction in TLS -induced losses, 

enabled by the increased hydrophobicity of the  treated surfaces and the ability of the monolayer 

to suppress oxide regrowth, thereby limiting the re -accumulation of additional TLS defects. 

Importantly and in contrast to alternative surface coating or capping techniques such as PVD, 

our conformal depos ition of self -assembled monolayers is anticipated to fully passivate all 

exposed resonator chip surfaces, including the side edges of the tantalum CPW structures. 

Future work shall be focused on a further improvement of the passivation methodology and 

may  include additional surface treatments post monolayer growth (such as annealing), as our 

data suggests additional power -independent losses, potentially introduced by the organic 

coating process. Beyond establishing a viable route to mitigate TLS losses, our  results highlight 

the potential of molecular interface engineering as a scalable strategy for advancing 

superconducting quantum devices and improving coherence in next -generation quantum 

technologies. 

4. Experimental  Section /Methods 

Tantalum thin -film deposition and CPW resonator fabrication 

Tantalum thin films were deposited on high -ohmic (>10k Ohm.cm) silicon (100) substrates. 

Prior to deposition, the silicon chips were cleaned by ultrasonication in acetone and isopropanol 

for three minutes, each. After that, the substrates were dipped for 6 0 s into buffered oxide etch 

(BOE, 7:1, HF: NH 4F)  [Caution:  Hydrofluoric acid is extremely hazardous and must be 

handled with appropriate protective equipment and training]  to remove the native oxide on the 

silicon , followed  by rinsing with DI water and drying with N 2. After the chemical cleaning steps, 

the substrates were mounted into the chamber of an RF -magnetron sputtering tool (Alcatel, 

model A 450 ) with base pressure below 3x10 -7 mbar. First, a seed layer of Nb ~5nm was 

deposited on the substrate to favor the growth of α -phase tantalum. Tantalum (200nm) was then 

deposited with 20 sccm Ar -flow, 18  μbar process pressure and a power of 200 W. To carry out 

RF characterization, quarter -wave coplanar waveguide (CPW) r esonators were fabricated from 

the deposited Ta thin films (for details, see Supporting Information: thin film growth and 

fabrication). 

Microwave measurements 

We investigated the RF response of Ta resonators by performing frequency domain 

measurements at varying input powers and temperatures for resonators at ~100 mK. The 

samples were mounted into an adiabatic demagnetization cryostat (kiutra, L -Type Rapid). The 

measurements involved recording the transmission coefficient S 21  for the resonators using a 

vector network analyzer (for details, see Supporting  Information:  Cryogenic resonator 

measurement setup , and  Microwave measurement  procedure  and analysis ). 17 

DC electrical measurements 

For DC electrical characterization, the Ta thin films were lithographically defined into a 

standard Hall -bar geometry. Four -terminal resistance measurements were performed using a 

Keithley 2420 source meter. For this purpose, the device was wire -bonded to  a low -temperature 

sample holder, and measurements were carried out under continuous temperature control 

provided in a kiutra L -Type Rapid cryostat. During each measurement, a constant DC excitation 

current was sourced through the longitudinal Hall bar cont acts while the resulting voltage drop 

was recorded at contacts along the bar’s side, thereby eliminating contributions from lead and 

contact resistances. 

SAM growth and characterization 

Growth 

We have grown SAMs onto three different films: (i) planar Ta films and (ii) planar Si and (iii) 

substrates with Ta films structured as CPW resonators.  1-Octadecene (C 18 H36 ) molecules were 

used in all three cases (see Supporting Information: Self assembled monolayer growth). 

Characterization 

The grown SAMs were characterized using contact angle goniometry, ellipsometry, X -ray 

photoelectron spectroscopy, Fourier -transform infrared spectroscopy, AFM and transmission 

electron microscopy. 

- Contact angle 

Surface wettability was evaluated using a Dataphysics OCA15 contact angle goniometer. A 2 

μL droplet of deionized water was dispensed onto the sample surface via a precision dosing 

system, and the static contact angle (CA) was determined from images captur ed immediately 

after droplet deposition. Contact angles were analyzed using the Dataphysics software. 

Reported CA values represent the mean values obtained from multiple droplets measured at a 

minimum of four distinct locations per sample. 

- Ellipsometry 

Variable angle spectroscopic ellipsometry measurements were made with a J.A. Woollam Co. 

alpha -SE ellipsometer at two different incidence angles (75° and 65°) over a wavelength range 

of 400 -900 nm.  The thicknesses of the SAMs were estimated from ellipsometry by fitting the 

top layer with Cauchy’s dispersion relation. 

- X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy 

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed using a home -built 

system (components from SPECS Surface Nano Analysis) operating under ultra -high vacuum 

(~5 × 10⁻⁹ mbar). The setup was equipped with an XR 50 X -ray source and a Phoibos 1 00 

hemispherical electron analyzer. A magnesium anode was employed to generate Mg K α

radiation (E = 1253.6 eV). The X -ray source was operated at 12.50 kV and 20.0 mA. 

Photoelectron spectra were recorded in fixed analyzer transmission mode with a pass energ y of 

25 eV and a dwell time of 1 s. Each spectrum represents the average of two to four consecutive 18 

scans. Data analysis, including charge referencing and background subtraction, was performed 

using CasaXPS and OriginLab software. All spectra were charge -referenced to the C 1s 

hydrocarbon peak at 285.0 eV. 

- Fourier -transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy 

The structural order and quality of the SAMs was investigated by infrared spectroscopy. FTIR 

spectra in attenuated total reflection (ATR) mode were recorded using a Bruker spect rometer 

(Vertex 70V ), to obtain the molecular vibration fingerprint of the SAM.  FTIR spectra of the 

passivated samples were obtained by first measuring the background response from bare Si and 

Ta substrates. This background was then subtracted from the corresponding  data  of the 

passivated films to yield the final spectra. 

- X-ray diffraction 

To characterize the crystallographic orientation and phases of Ta, all planar films were probed 

with g razing  angle incident -X-ray diffraction (GI -XRD), with a fixed small incidence angle of 

0.5 ° to minimize the background signal from the bulk Si and maximize the signal from the top -

layer. 

- Atomic force microscopy 

To determine the surface morphology and validate the conformal growth of the SAMs, AFM 

images were recorded in tapping mode using a Bruker (Veeco) Dimension V AFM. The surface 

roughness post SAM passivation of the Si and Ta thin films were measured. A scan  size of 

5x5μm 2 was taken for each sample at three different spots. The images were processed and 

analyzed for roughness estimation using the Gwyddion 2.66 software. 

- Transmission Electron Microscopy/ Electron energy loss spectroscopy 

Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) measurements were performed on cross -sections of 

the thin films prepared by SGS Institut Fresenius GmbH, using a JOEL JEM F200 microscope 

with an operation voltage range 80 -200 kV. Electron energy loss spectroscopy (E ELS) spectra, 

to obtain elemental mapping and confirm the presence of the SAM, were obtained with the 

same microscope using GATAN GIF Continuum ER detectors. 

Acknowledgements 

We acknowledge funding through the Munich Quantum Valley (MQV) project by the Free 

State of Bavaria, Germany, and the Munich Quantum Valley Quantum Computer 

Demonstrators - Superconducting Qubits (MUNIQC -SC) project (grant no. 13N16188), funded 

by the Feder al Ministry of Research, Technology and Space, Germany. The Walter Schottky 

Institute  (Prof. Sharp, Prof. Stutzmann) , the  Zentrum für Nanotechnologie &  -materialien  and 

the  Catalysis Research Center  of TU Munich  are  gratefully acknowledged for providing access 

to their XPS , clean room and XRD  facilit ies, respectively . We thank the staff of the ZEITlab 

shared facilities of TU Munich for expert technical support. Dr. Manoj Kumar from CIT -EE, 

TU Munich -Germany  is  acknowledged for scientific discussion. 19 

Competing interests 

The authors declare no competing interests. 

Data Availability Statement 

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author 

upon reasonable request. 

References 

[1]  D. K. Weiss, S. Puri, S. M. Girvin,  PRX Quantum  2024 , 5, 020312 .

[2]  M. A. Sillanpää, J. I. Park, R. W. Simmonds,  Nature  2007 , 449 , 438. 

[3]  S. Saito, X. Zhu, R. Amsüss, Y. Matsuzaki, K. Kakuyanagi, T. Shimo -Oka, N. Mizuochi, K. 

Nemoto, W. J. Munro, K. Semba,  Physical review letters  2013 , 111 , 107008. 

[4]  U. Alushi, A. Coppo, V. Brosco, R. Di Candia, S. Felicetti,  Commun Phys  2025 , 8, 74 .

[5]  G. Beaulieu, F. Minganti, S. Frasca, M. Scigliuzzo, S. Felicetti, R. Di Candia, P. Scarlino,  PRX 

Quantum  2025 , 6, 020301 .

[6]  S. Danilin, N. Nugent, M. Weides,  New J. Phys.  2024 , 26 , 103029. 

[7]  C. L. Degen, F. Reinhard, P. Cappellaro,  Rev. Mod. Phys.  2017 , 89 , 035002 .

[8]  J. van Damme, S. Massar, R. Acharya, T. Ivanov, D. Perez Lozano, Y. Canvel, M. Demarets, 

D. Vangoidsenhoven, Y. Hermans, J. G. Lai, A. M. Vadiraj, M. Mongillo, D. Wan, J. de 

Boeck, A. Potočnik, K. de Greve,  Nature  2024 , 634 , 74. 

[9]  I. Siddiqi,  Nat Rev Mater  2021 , 6, 875. 

[10]  F. Arute, K. Arya, R. Babbush, D. Bacon, J. C. Bardin, R. Barends, R. Biswas, S. Boixo, F. G. 

S. L. Brandao, D. A. Buell, B. Burkett, Y. Chen, Z. Chen, B. Chiaro, R. Collins, W. Courtney, 

A. Dunsworth, E. Farhi, B. Foxen, A. Fowler, C. Gidney, M. Giustina , R. Graff, K. Guerin, S. 

Habegger, M. P. Harrigan, M. J. Hartmann, A. Ho, M. Hoffmann, T. Huang, T. S. Humble, S. 

V. Isakov, E. Jeffrey, Z. Jiang, D. Kafri, K. Kechedzhi, J. Kelly, P. V. Klimov, S. Knysh, A. 

Korotkov, F. Kostritsa, D. Landhuis, M. Lin dmark, E. Lucero, D. Lyakh, S. Mandrà, J. R. 

McClean, M. McEwen, A. Megrant, X. Mi, K. Michielsen, M. Mohseni, J. Mutus, O. 

Naaman, M. Neeley, C. Neill, M. Y. Niu, E. Ostby, A. Petukhov, J. C. Platt, C. Quintana, E. 

G. Rieffel, P. Roushan, N. C. Rubin, D.  Sank, K. J. Satzinger, V. Smelyanskiy, K. J. Sung, M. 

D. Trevithick, A. Vainsencher, B. Villalonga, T. White, Z. J. Yao, P. Yeh, A. Zalcman, H. 

Neven, J. M. Martinis,  Nature  2019 , 574 , 505. 

[11]  S. Bravyi, O. Dial, J. M. Gambetta, D. Gil, Z. Nazario,  Journal of Applied Physics  2022 , 132 .

[12]  J. Clarke, F. K. Wilhelm,  Nature  2008 , 453 , 1031. 

[13]  M. H. Devoret, R. J. Schoelkopf,  Science , 2013 , 339 , 116. 

[14]  A. Blais, R. -S. Huang, A. Wallraff, S. M. Girvin, R. J. Schoelkopf,  Phys. Rev. A  2004 , 69 ,

062320 .

[15]  I. Chiorescu, P. Bertet, K. Semba, Y. Nakamura, C. J. P. M. Harmans, J. E. Mooij,  Nature 

2004 , 431 , 159. 

[16]  A. O. Niskanen, K. Harrabi, F. Yosihara, Y. Nakamura, S. Lloyd, J. S. Tsavi,  Science (New 

York, N.Y.)  2007 , 316 , 719. 20 

[17]  D. Vion, A. Aassime, P. Joyez, H. Pothier, C. Urbina, D. Esteve, M. Devoret,  Science  2002 ,

296 , 886. 

[18] A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R. S. Huang, J. Majer, S. Kumar, S. M. Girvin, 

Schoelkopf,R,J, Nature 2004 , 431 , 159. 

[19]  J. Zmuidzinas,  Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys.  2012 , 3, 169. 

[20]  C. R. H. McRae, H. Wang, J. Gao, M. R. Vissers, T. Brecht, A. Dunsworth, D. P. Pappas, J. 

Mutus,  The Review of scientific instruments  2020 , 91 , 91101. 

[21] P. Macha, S. H. W. van der Ploeg, G. Oelsner, E. Il’ichev, H. -G. Meyer, S. Wünsch, M. 

Siegel, Applied Physics Letters 2010 , 96 , 062503 .

[22] J. Goetz, F. Deppe, M. Haeberlein, F. Wulschner, C. W. Zollitsch, S. Meier, M. Fischer, P. 

Eder, E. Xie, K. G. Fedorov, E. P. Menzel, A. Marx, R. Gross, Journal of Applied Physics 

2016 , 119 , 015304 .

[23]  J. Gao, M. Daal, A. Vayonakis, S. Kumar, J. Zmuidzinas, B. Sadoulet, B. A. Mazin, P. K. Day, 

H. G. Leduc,  Applied Physics Letters  2008 , 92 , 152505 .

[24]  J. M. Sage, V. Bolkhovsky, W. D. Oliver, B. Turek, P. B. Welander,  Journal of Applied Physics 

2011 , 109 , 063915 .

[25]  M. Checchin, D. Frolov, A. Lunin, A. Grassellino, A. Romanenko,  Phys. Rev. Applied  2022 ,

18 , 034013 .

[26]  R. Barends, N. Vercruyssen, A. Endo, P. J. de Visser, T. Zijlstra, T. M. Klapwijk, P. Diener, S. 

J. C. Yates, J. J. A. Baselmans,  Applied Physics Letters  2010 , 97 , 023508 .

[27]  H. Gupta, R. Pereira, L. Koch, N. Bruckmoser, M. Singer, B. Schoof, M. Kompatscher, S. 

Filipp, M. Tornow,  Commun Mater  2026 , 7, 58 .

[28]  C. Müller, J. H. Cole, J. Lisenfeld,  Reports on progress in physics. Physical Society , 2019 ,

82 , 124501. 

[29]  R. Barends, J. J. A. Baselmans, S. J. C. Yates, J. R. Gao, J. N. Hovenier, T. M. Klapwijk, 

Physical review letters  2008 , 100 , 257002. 

[30]  R. Barends, J. Wenner, M. Lenander, Y. Chen, R. C. Bialczak, J. Kelly, E. Lucero, P. O’Malley, 

M. Mariantoni, D. Sank, H. Wang, T. C. White, Y. Yin, J. Zhao, A. N. Cleland, J. M. Martinis, 

J. J. A. Baselmans,  Applied Physics Letters  2011 , 99 , 113507 .

[31]  K. Serniak, M. Hays, G. de Lange, S. Diamond, S. Shankar, L. D. Burkhart, L. Frunzio, M. 

Houzet, M. H. Devoret,  Physical review letters  2018 , 121 , 157701. 

[32]  A. P. Vepsäläinen, A. H. Karamlou, J. L. Orrell, A. S. Dogra, B. Loer, F. Vasconcelos, D. K. 

Kim, A. J. Melville, B. M. Niedzielski, J. L. Yoder, S. Gustavsson, J. A. Formaggio, B. A. 

VanDevender, W. D. Oliver,  Nature  2020 , 584 , 551. 

[33]  T. Thorbeck, A. Eddins, I. Lauer, D. T. McClure, M. Carroll,  PRX Quantum  2023 , 4, 020356 .

[34]  M. Scigliuzzo, L. E. Bruhat, A. Bengtsson, J. J. Burnett, A. F. Roudsari, P. Delsing,  New J. 

Phys.  2020 , 22 , 53027. 

[35]  P. J. de Visser, J. J. A. Baselmans, S. J. C. Yates, P. Diener, A. Endo, T. M. Klapwijk,  Applied 

Physics Letters  2012 , 100 , 162601 .

[36]  C. E. Murray,  Materials Science and Engineering: R: Reports  2021 , 146 , 100646. 

[37] E. Dumur, B. Delsol, T. Weissl, B. Kung, W. Guichard, C. Hoarau, C. Naud, K. Hasselbach, 

O. Buisson, K. Ratter, B. Gilles, IEEE Trans.  Appl. Supercond.  2016 , 26 , 1. 

[38]  N. P. d. Leon, K. M. Itoh, D. Kim, K. K. Mehta, T. E. Northup, H. Paik, B. S. Palmer, N. 

Samarth, S. Sangtawesin, D. W. Steuerman,  Science , 2021 , 372 , 253 .21 

[39]  A. P. M. Place, L. V. H. Rodgers, P. Mundada, B. M. Smitham, M. Fitzpatrick, Z. Leng, A. 

Premkumar, J. Bryon, A. Vrajitoarea, S. Sussman, G. Cheng, T. Madhavan, H. K. Babla, X. 

H. Le, Y. Gang, B. Jäck, A. Gyenis, N. Yao, R. J. Cava, N. P. d. Leon, A. A. H ouck,  Nature 

communications  2021 , 12 , 1779. 

[40] S. Ganjam, Y. Wang, Y. Lu, A. Banerjee, C. U. Lei, L. Krayzman, K. Kisslinger, C. Zhou, R. Li, 

Y. Jia, M. Liu, L. Frunzio, R. J. Schoelkopf, Nature communications 2024 , 15 , 3687. 

[41] Y. Urade, K. Yakushiji, M. Tsujimoto, T. Yamada, K. Makise, W. Mizubayashi, K. Inomata, 

APL Materials 2024 , 12 , 021132 .

[42] L. Shi, T. Guo, R. Su, T. Chi, Y. Sheng, J. Jiang, C. Cao, J. Wu, X. Tu, G. Sun, J. Chen, P. Wu, 

Applied Physics Letters 2022 , 121 , 242601 .

[43] C. Wang, X. Li, H. Xu, Z. Li, J. Wang, Z. Yang, Z. Mi, X. Liang, T. Su, C. Yang, G. Wang, W. 

Wang, Y. Li, M. Chen, C. Li, K. Linghu, J. Han, Y. Zhang, Y. Feng, Y. Song, T. Ma, J. Zhang, R. 

Wang, P. Zhao, W. Liu, G. Xue, Y. Jin, H. Yu, npj Quantum Inf 2022 , 8, 3 .

[44] M. P. Bland, F. Bahrami, J. G. C. Martinez, P. H. Prestegaard, B. M. Smitham, A. Joshi, E. 

Hedrick, S. Kumar, A. Yang, A. C. Pakpour -Tabrizi, A. Jindal, R. D. Chang, G. Cheng, N. Yao, 

R. J. Cava, N. P. d. Leon, A. A. Houck, Nature 2025 , 647 , 343. 

[45] F. Wang, C. C. Yu, R. Wu, C. Deng, Phys. Rev. Applied 2025 , 23 , 044064 .

[46] J.S. Oh, R. Zaman, A. A. Murthy, M. Bal, F. Crisa, S. Zhu, C. G. Torres -Castendo, C. J. 

Kopas, J. Y. Mutus, D. Jing, J. Zasadzinski, A. Grassellino, A. Romanenko, M. C. Hersam, 

M. J. Bedzyk, M. Kramer, B. -C. Zhou, L. Zhou, ACS nano 2024 , 18 , 19732. 

[47]  R. A. McLellan, A. Dutta, C. Zhou, Y. Jia, C. Weiland, X. Gui, A. P. M. Place, K. D. Crowley, 

X. H. Le, T. Madhavan, Y. Gang, L. Baker, A. R. Head, I. Waluyo, R. Li, K. Kisslinger, A. Hunt, 

I. Jarrige, S. A. Lyon, A. M. Barbour, R. J. Cava, A. A. Houck, S . L. Hulbert, M. Liu, A. L. 

Walter, N. P. d. Leon,  Advanced science , 2023 , 10 , 2300921 .

[48]  M. Bal, A. A. Murthy, S. Zhu, F. Crisa, X. You, Z. Huang, T. Roy, J. Lee, D. van Zanten, R. 

Pilipenko, I. Nekrashevich, A. Lunin, D. Bafia, Y. Krasnikova, C. J. Kopas, E. O. Lachman, D. 

Miller, J. Y. Mutus, M. J. Reagor, H. Cansizoglu, J. Marshall, D. P.  Pappas, K. Vu, K. 

Yadavalli, J. -S. Oh, L. Zhou, M. J. Kramer, F. Lecocq, D. P. Goronzy, C. G. Torres -Castanedo, 

P. G. Pritchard, V. P. Dravid, J. M. Rondinelli, M. J. Bedzyk, M. C. Hersam, J. Zasadzinski, J. 

Koch, J. A. Sauls, A. Romanenko, A. Grassell ino,  npj Quantum Inf  2024 , 10 , 43 .

[49]  M. C. de Ory, V. Rollano, D. Rodriguez, M. T. Magaz, D. Granados, A. Gomez,  Adv 

Quantum Tech  2025 , 8, 2400699 .

[50]  R. D. Chang, N. Shumiya, R. A. McLellan, Y. Zhang, M. P. Bland, F. Bahrami, J. Mun, C. 

Zhou, K. Kisslinger, G. Cheng, B. M. Smitham, A. C. Pakpour -Tabrizi, N. Yao, Y. Zhu, M. Liu, 

R. J. Cava, S. Gopalakrishnan, A. A. Houck, N. P. d. Leon,  Physical review letters  2025 ,

134 , 97001. 

[51]  Abraham Ulman,  Chemical reviews  1996 , 96 , 1533. 

[52]  Frank Schreiber,  Progress in Surface Science  2000 , 65 , 151. 

[53] S. P. Pujari, L. Scheres, A. T. M. Marcelis, H. Zuilhof, Angewandte Chemie , 2014 , 53 , 6322. 

[54]  J. C. Love, L. A. Estroff, J. K. Kriebel, R. G. Nuzzo, G. M. Whitesides,  Chemical reviews 

2005 , 105 , 1103. 

[55]  A. Vilan, D. Aswal, D. Cahen,  Chemical reviews  2017 , 117 , 4248. 

[56]  Th. Wink, S. J. van Zuilen, A. Bult and W. P. van Bennekom,  Analyst  1997 , 122 , 43R -53R. 22 

[57] A. Cattani -Scholz, D. Pedone, M. Dubey, S. Neppl, B. Nickel, P. Feulner, J. Schwartz, G. 

Abstreiter, M. Tornow, ACS nano 2008 , 2, 1653. 

[58]  J. Kwon, S. Park, T. H. Lee, J. -M. Yang, C. S. Lee,  Applied Surface Science  2011 , 257 , 5115. 

[59]  J. M. Dlugosch, H. Seim, A. Bora, T. Kamiyama, I. Lieberman, F. May, F. Müller -Plathe, A. 

Nefedov, S. Prasad, S. Resch, K. Saller, C. Seim, M. Speckbacher, F. Voges, M. Tornow, P. 

Kirsch,  ACS applied materials & interfaces  2022 , 14 , 31044. 

[60]  M. Alghadeer, A. Banerjee, A. Hajr, H. Hussein, H. Fariborzi, S. G. Rao,  ACS applied 

materials & interfaces  2023 , 15 , 2319. 

[61]  D. Aubry, C. Volcke, C. Arnould, C. Humbert, P. A. Thiry, J. Delhalle, Z. Mekhalif,  Applied 

Surface Science  2009 , 255 , 4765. 

[62]  L. Gopal, T. Sudarshan,  Surface Engineering  2025 , 41 , 523. 

[63]  R. de Palma, W. Laureyn, F. Frederix, K. Bonroy, J. -J. Pireaux, G. Borghs, G. Maes, 

Langmuir the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids  2007 , 23 , 443. 

[64] M. Textor, L. Ruiz, R. Hofer, A. Rossi, K. Feldman, G. Hähner, N. D. Spencer, Langmuir 

2000 , 16 , 3257. 

[65] A. J. Prosser, E. I. Franses , Langmuir , 200 2, 18, 9234 .

[66]  J. M. Alonso, B. Fabre, A. K. Trilling, L. Scheres, M. C. R. Franssen, H. Zuilhof,  Langmuir 

the ACS journal of surfaces and colloids  2015 , 31 , 2714. 

[67] A. Pathak, A. Bora, B. Braunschweig, C. Meltzer, H. Yan, P. Lemmens, W. Daum, J. 

Schwartz, M. Tornow, Nanoscale 2017 , 9, 6291. 

[68] A. N. Parikh, D. L. Allara, I. B Azouz, F. Rondelez., J. Phys. Chem . 1994 , 98, 7577. 

[69] C. S. Pedersen, J. H. Chang, Y. Li, N. Pryds, J. M. Garcia Lastra, APL Materials 2020 , 8.

[70]  R. Simpson, R. G. White, J. F. Watts, M. A. Baker,  Applied Surface Science  2017 , 405 , 79. 

[71]  L. H. Grey, H. -Y. Nie, M. C. Biesinger,  Applied Surface Science  2024 , 653 , 159319. 

[72]  M. Sreekanth, S. Ghosh, S. R. Barman, P. Sadhukhan, P. Srivastava,  Appl. Phys. A  2018 ,

124 , 528 .

[73]  D. P. Lozano, M. Mongillo, B. Raes, Y. Canvel, S. Massar, A. M. Vadiraj, T. Ivanov, R. 

Acharya, J. van Damme, J. de van Vondel, D. Wan, A. Potočnik, K. de Greve,  Advanced 

science , 2025 , 12 , 09244. 

[74]  K. D. Crowley, R. A. McLellan, A. Dutta, N. Shumiya, A. P. M. Place, X. H. Le, Y. Gang, T. 

Madhavan, M. P. Bland, R. Chang, N. Khedkar, Y. C. Feng, E. A. Umbarkar, X. Gui, L. V. H. 

Rodgers, Y. Jia, M. M. Feldman, S. A. Lyon, M. Liu, R. J. Cava, A. A. Houc k, N. P. d. Leon, 

Phys. Rev. X  2023 , 13 , 041005 .

[75]  D. P. Pappas, M. R. Vissers, D. S. Wisbey, J. S. Kline, J. Gao,  IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 

2011 , 21 , 871. 

[76]  P. J. de Visser, D. J. Goldie, P. Diener, S. Withington, J. J. A. Baselmans, T. M. Klapwijk, 

Physical review letters  2014 , 112 , 47004. 23 

Supporting Information 

# Enhanced Tantalum Superconducting Resonator Performance via All -

# Surface Organic Monolayer Passivation 

Harsh Gupta 1#* , Moritz Singer 1#, Benedikt Schoof 1, Anna Cattani -Scholz 1, Shreya Sharma 2,

Luca Rommeis 3, Marc Tornow 1*

> 1

School of Computation, Information and Technology, Department of Electrical Engineering, 

Technical University of Munich, 85748 Garching, Germany 

> 2

Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering,  Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee ,

247667, Roorkee,  India 

> 3

Fraunhofer Institute for Electronic Microsystems and Solid State Technologies (EMFT), 

80686 Munich, Germany 

E-Mail* : harsh.gupta@tum.de, tornow@tum.de 

# Authors contributed equally to this work 

Thin film growth and fabrication 

All tantalum thin films were deposited on high -ohmic (>10 kOhm.cm) silicon (100) substrates 

from Topsil GlobalWafers A/S (Denmark). Silicon substrates were ultrasonically cleaned in 

acetone and isopropanol for 3 min each, followed by immersion in buffered  oxide etch (BOE; 

7:1, HF: NH 4F = 12.5: 87.5%) for 60 s to remove the native oxide layer  [Caution:  Hydrofluoric 

acid is extremely hazardous and must be handled with appropriate protective equipment and 

training].  The substrates were subsequently rinsed with  deionized water and dried under a 

nitrogen stream. The cleaned substrates were immediately loaded into an RF magnetron 

sputtering system (Alcatel A450) with a base pressure of ~10⁻⁷ mbar for film deposition. A ~5 

nm niobium seed layer was first deposited,  followed by tantalum deposition, carried out at an 

argon flow rate of 20 sccm, a working pressure of 18  μbar and an RF power of 200 W. It should 

be noted that the substrates remained under vacuum after the niobium seed layer deposition to 

prevent surface  oxidation prior to tantalum growth. Material characterization by X -ray 

diffraction, electrical characterization to obtain RRR and T c, XPS and TEM were performed on 

planar films. 

To define the coplanar waveguide resonator structures, the desired patterns were transferred 

onto the chips by photolithography using a maskless aligner (μMLA, Heidelberg Instruments), 

followed by reactive ion etching (RIE) in an Oxford PlasmaPro 80 Cobra  system, employing 

CF₄ gas (RF power: 70 W; ICP power: 150 W; etch time: 2 min).  Our CPW resonators are 

quarter -wave resonators designed by shorting one end of a transmission line to have resonant 

frequencies ( fr) between 5 -9 GHz, where  fr is related to len gth ( l) and effective dielectric 

constant (ε eff ) as  [1,2] 

𝑓 𝑟  ∝ 𝑐 

> 𝑙 √𝜀 𝑒𝑓𝑓

24 

Figure S1 . Characteristics of α -Ta thin films grown on Si substrate with Nb seed layer (a) GI -

XRD spectra for thin films; we observe only α -phase Ta peaks. (b) 4 -point critical temperature 

measurement on an α -Ta thin film; a critical temperature of ~4.2K is recorde d. 

Figure S2 . Left: Optical micrograph of a tantalum resonator chip, showing the typical layout 

design in hanger geometry with resonance frequencies in the range ~5 -9 GHz. Wire -bonds 

surrounding the resonators connect the sample’s ground plane to the copper box housin g. 

Right: Close -up, showing the measured dimensions of the center line and the gaps to the ground 

plane, 10 μm and 6 μm, respectively. 

where,  c is the speed of light in vacuum and  𝑐 

> √𝜀 𝑒𝑓𝑓

= 𝑣 𝑝 ℎ ,is the phase velocity of light in the 

resonator. The typical design of the resonator chip including the dimensions of the CPW center 

line width and the gaps is shown in figure S2. 

Self -assembled monolayer growth 

The following recipe is employed for the growth of alkene SAMs on Si, as well as on Ta planar 

films and on Ta resonators. Thin films and resonators were first cleaned with acetone followed 

by propanol and DI water using ultrasonication for 3 min each and t hen etched in BOE. 

Subsequently, the etched samples were promptly (within  ~5 mins) transferred to a reaction flask 

containing 1 -octadecene (Sigma Aldrich), where the SAMs were then grown from the liquid 

phase via thermal activation, when heated for 1 hour  at 160°C under nitrogen environment. 

After SAM growth, the samples were rinsed in fresh, clean iso -propanol and dried in a nitrogen 

flow. 25 

Figure S3 . AFM images showing the topography of (a) a SAM -passivated Si substrate with 

RMS roughness 0.7±0.1 nm and (b) a SAM -passivated Ta thin film with RMS roughness 0.9±0.2 

nm. 

Figure S4 . Schematic showing the experimental setup used for the growth of alkene self -

assembled monolayers on silicon and tantalum planar thin films and resonators in nitrogen 

ambient. 26 

Figure S5 . (a) Cross -sectional TEM image and corresponding EELS maps for (b) carbon; 

excess carbon in center indicates the SAM, (c) niobium; the protective niobium layer on top of 

the SAM can be discerned. Note that this Nb layer is covered by a ca. 100 nm addition al Ta 

layer (black region on the left of Nb), (d) oxygen; the residual Ta -oxide layer below the SAM 

appears prominently, and (e) elements carbon, oxygen and niobium together (cumulative EELS 

image). 

Cryogenic resonator measurement setup: 

Frequency domain transmission spectra (S 21 ) in the microwave regime were recorded using a 

Keysight  P5002B Streamline Vector Network Analyzer  (VNA), with the sample mounted in a 

kiutra  L-Type Rapid ADR refrigerator operating at ~100mK. The resonator sample is housed 

in a copper two -port box. The RF signal was routed through wire bonds from SMA connectors 

located on the two -port copper housing towards the coplanar waveguide resonators. F urther, to 

provide grounding for the resonator chip, the sample’s ground plane was wire -bonded to the 

copper box, see Fig. S2. 

On the input port,  -50 dB of total attenuation across the various temperature stages of the 

cryostat were installed and a 20 dB attenuator is mounted on the VNA outside the cryostat. An 

additional damping of ~ -20 dB occurred through filters, cables and con nectors. Following a low 

pass filter (K&L microwave, cut off: 12GHz) operating at 100 mK, the input signal is fed into 

the resonator chip under test. On the output line, a second low pass filter followed by a HEMT 

amplifier at 4K provides the resulting S 21  response, which then goes back into the VNA and is 

analyzed further. 27 

Figure S6 . Schematic of the experimental setup for microwave resonator measurements at 

cryogenic temperatures (~100 mK). The input signal from the vector network analyzer (VNA) 

enters the cryostat via the left RF -input port, passes through the resonator device unde r test, 

and exits through the output line. The output signal is amplified by a low -noise high electron 

mobility transistor (HEMT) amplifier before returning to the VNA via the right RF -output port 

for analysis. 

Microwave measurement procedure and data analysis: 

We investigated the RF response of CPW resonators in transmission mode by performing 

frequency domain measurements at varying input powers and at different temperatures. The 

measurements involved the recording of the transmission coefficient S 21  for the resonators over 

the frequency range  ~5-9 GHz. The values for the loaded quality factors  Ql and the coupling 

quality factors  Qc were extracted, by fitting the complex -valued frequency domain S 21  data with 

a circle fit according to:  [3,4] 

𝑆 21 (𝑓 ) = 𝑎𝑒 𝑖𝛼 𝑒 −2𝜋𝑖𝑓𝜏 [1 − (𝑄 𝑙 /|𝑄 𝑐 |)𝑒 𝑖𝜑  

> 1+2𝑖 𝑄 𝑙 (𝑓
> 𝑓 𝑟 −1)

] (S1) 

Here,  f is the probe frequency,  fr is the resonator frequency, and  ϕ is the argument of the 

complex -valued coupling quality factor, which considers a possible impedance mismatch. To 

take the damping of the cables into consideration, the amplitude is modified by the factor  a, and 

an initial offset of  α is introduced in the phase along with a delay  τ due to the finite length of 

the measurement cables. The microwave power inserted into the resonator circuit can be 28 

translated into a mean photon number  <n> , which can be estimated from the following relation, 

with  Pin  being the input microwave power:  [5,6] 

〈𝑛 〉 = 𝑄 𝑙 

> 2
> 𝜋 ℎ𝑓 𝑟
> 2𝑄 𝑐

𝑃 𝑖𝑛  (S2) 

Figure S7.  Coupled quality factor Q c, as extracted for native oxide, unpassivated and 

passivated resonators. We observe no significant change in Q c with input power, also no 

significant change between different resonators, suggesting a robust fitting routine and 

confirming the similar design for all chips under investigation. 

We further validate the fitting routine; as  Qc depends only on the design of the resonators, its 

value (stability) can confirm the extraction of parameters using equation S1.  The coupling 

quality factor  Qc is consistently extracted with  a value of about ~1 -1.5×10 5 (fig. S7),  for 

resonators with native oxide, as well as for unpassivated and passivated devices.  This value 

remains stable across varying input powers, highlighting both the reproducibility of the 

measurements and the reliability of the fitting procedure employed to determine  Qi.

Figure S8 represents the variation of extracted  Qi values for all different, individual resonators 

(native oxide, unpassivated and passivated) at their different resonance frequencies. The 

passivated resonators show overall higher  Qi values in the low power regime (n~1), when 

compared to the other resonator types, whereas native oxide resonators show overall higher  Qi

values in the high power regime (n~10 6). 29 

Figure S8.  Extracted Q i values for all single resonators with different frequencies in the range 

~5 -9 GHz, at both low (n~1) and high power (n~10 6): (a) passivated, (b) unpassivated and (c) 

native oxide resonators. Solid lines represent the mean values of Q i at low power (dark purple) 

and high power (light purple). 

Internal quality factor fitting weights: 

Figure S9.  Normalized weights for Q i against temperature for native oxide resonators at 

different powers: a clear difference in transition from the TLS dominated/other dominated to 

the QP dominated region is observable with increase in temperature/power. The  QP 

contribution onset shows a shift to lower temperatures with increase in power. The black arrow 

denotes the shift in transition between different losses for different resonators. 30 

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy: 

First, XPS survey spectra were recorded for all samples to identify all the constituent elements, 

in our case Ta (4f ~1 8-34 eV), O (1s around 532 eV), C (1s around 285eV). Thereafter, a narrow 

scan spectrum for all elements was recorded. For all the spectra, a charge referencing correction 

was performed considering the C1s hydrocarbon peak at 285eV. Fitting routine for Ta 

spectrum: For detailed analysis of the Ta surface chemistry, we considered the Ta -4f spectrum 

for all native oxide, unpassivated and pas sivated Ta thin films. We subtracted the Shirley 

background from the spectra in the binding energy range of interest. Different components were 

fitted with a LA ( α,β,c ) line shape, which is a superset of the Voigt function, in CASA XPS, 

where  α, β  defines the spread of the tail on either side of the Lorentzian component, and the 

parameter  c specifies the width of the Gaussian used to convolute the Lorentzian curve. 

Different oxidation states for Ta were identified; for the fitting routine, spin -orbit doublets (4f 7/2 ,

> 5/2

) were considered for all suboxides with fixed energy separation of ~1.9eV and the defined 

area ratio of 4:3 for the f 7/2 :f 5/2  peaks. The Ta⁰ oxidation s tate, corresponding to metallic 

tantalum, was fitted using an asymmetric peak, as the presence of unfilled one -electron levels 

in the conduction band allows electrons to undergo shake -up type processes following core -

level photoemission. Consequently, inst ead of distinct shake -up satellite features, a tail appears 

on the higher binding energy side of the main peak, resulting in an asymmetric peak shape 

characteristic of metallic states  [7] . In contrast, such energy levels are not available in metal 

oxides, and therefore, the corresponding peaks exhibit symmetric line shapes. Hence, other 

oxidation states (Ta +4 , Ta +5 ) corresponding to TaO 2 and Ta 2O5 are fitted with symmetric peaks 

and with the same FWHM for individual spin -orbit doublets for different suboxides. 

Table S1  Peak positions, line shapes and FWHM for the different components with spin -orbit 

doublets of the Ta 4f XPS spectra for Ta thin films with native oxide. Similar parameters were 

used for passivated and unpassivated Ta thin films, within 5% deviation. Metal lic Ta 

contributions are fitted with asymmetric peaks with parameters (α,β,c) and oxide contributions 

are fitted with symmetric peaks with parameters (α,β). 

Table S2  Peak positions, line shapes and FWHM for the different components of the C 1s 

XPS spectra for Ta thin films with native oxide. Similar parameters were used for passivated 

and unpassivated Ta thin films, within 5% deviation. 

Position(eV)  Line shape ( α,β, c)  FWHM (eV) 

Ta(4f  7/2 ) 21.8  LA (1.30,2.44,69)  1.1 

Ta(4f  5/2 ) 23.7  LA (1.30,2.44,69)  1.1 

Ta +5  (4f  7/2 ) 27.1  LA (1.53, 2.43)  1.5 

Ta +5  (4f  5/2 ) 29.0  LA (1.53, 2.43)  1.5 

Ta +4  (4f  7/2 ) 24.6  LA (1.53, 2.43)  2.2 

Ta +4  (4f  5/2 ) 26.5  LA (1.53, 2.43)  2.2 

Position(eV)  Line shape (a, β)  FWHM (eV) 

C-C 21.8  LA (1.53, 2.43)  1.2 

C=O  23.7  LA (1.53, 2.43)  1.9 

-O-C=O  27.1  LA (1.53, 2.43)  2.3 31 

Figure S10.  Background corrected, un -normalized C 1s XPS spectra  for different films. 

Significantly higher intensity for passivated films indicates the presence of the organic layer. 

References 

[1]  M. Göppl, A. Fragner, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, S. Filipp, J. M. Fink, P. J. Leek, G. 

Puebla, L. Steffen, A. Wallraff,  Journal of Applied Physics  2008 , 104,  113904 .

[2]  K. D. Crowley, R. A. McLellan, A. Dutta, N. Shumiya, A. P. M. Place, X. H. Le, Y. 

Gang, T. Madhavan, M. P. Bland, R. Chang, N. Khedkar, Y. C. Feng, E. A. Umbarkar, X. 

Gui, L. V. H. Rodgers, Y. Jia, M. M. Feldman, S. A. Lyon, M. Liu, R. J. Cava, A. A. Houc k, 

N. P. d. Leon,  Phys. Rev. X  2023 , 13, 041005  .

[3]  S. Probst, F. B. Song, P. A. Bushev, A. V. Ustinov, M. Weides,  The Review of 

scientific instruments  2015 , 86 , 24706. 

[4]  M. S. Khalil, M. J. A. Stoutimore, F. C. Wellstood, K. D. Osborn,  Journal of Applied 

Physics  2012 , 111 , 54510. 

[5] T. Tai, J. Cai, S. M. Anlage, Adv Quantum Tech 2024 , 7, 2200145. 

[6]  S. J. Weber, K. W. Murch, D. H. Slichter, R. Vijay, I. Siddiqi,  Applied Physics Letters 

2011 , 98,  172510 .

[7]  D. J. Morgan,  Surface & Interface Analysis  2023 , 55 , 567.