Title: Low-temperature Depletion of Superfluid Density in the Absence of Galilean Symmetry

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.00274v1

Published Time: Mon, 04 May 2026 00:18:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 5

Markdown Content:
# Universal Low-temperature Depletion of Superfluid Density in the Absence of Galilean Symmetry 

Viktor Berger, 1 Nikolay Prokof’ev, 1 and Boris Svistunov 1

> 1

Department of Physics, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003, USA 

Landau theory of superfluidity associates low-temperature flow of the normal component with the phonon wind. This picture does not apply to superfluids in which Galilean invariance is broken either by disorder, porous media, or lattice potential, and the phonon wind is no longer solely responsible for depletion of the superfluid component. Based on Popov’s hydrodynamic action with anharmonic terms, we present a general theory for low-temperature ( T ) dependence of the superfluid stiffness, which reproduces Landau result as a special case when several parameters of the hydrodynamic action are fixed by Galilean invariance, and validate it with numerical simulations of interacting lattice bosons. In a broader context, our approach reveals universal low-temperature thermodynamics of superfluids with an intrinsic connection between finite-T and finite-size ( L)effects implying universal scaling, T d+1 and 1 /L d+1 , respectively, for a large class of thermodynamic quantities. We discuss the experimental detection of this law, and compare our prediction to the existing literature. 

Introduction. The concept of superfluid phase [1] is central for the modern theory of superfluidity. It is in terms of the superfluid phase field that one accounts for all universal properties of superfluids such as quan-tization of the superfluid velocity circulation [2, 3], iso-lated vortexes and vortex arrays [3, 4], AC Josephson effect [5], and universality classes of superfluid transi-tions; for a review, see, e.g., Ref. [6]. In a sharp contrast, the foundational Landau theory of superfluidity [7] di-rectly associates the universal low-temperature normal flow with the phonon wind—a ballistic flow of thermally equilibrated phonon subsystem past superfluid vacuum, thereby creating an impression that full understanding of the universal mechanism of low-temperature depletion of the superfluid density can be achieved without invoking the notion of superfluid phase. The key questions then are how the problem is solved using the concept of superfluid phase and whether Landau-type arguments can be generalized to systems with continuous translation symmetry being broken ei-ther by periodic or disordered external potential (we an-swer this question negatively ). Important examples of such systems include ultracold atoms in optical lattices, supersolids, 4He in porous media [8], 4He films on sub-strates [9], as well as superfluid and supersolid excitons in double-layer structures [10, 11]. The two-fluid picture needs to be seriously revised in all such cases because at T = 0 only the superfluid component is flowing while the non-zero normal component is pinned by external potential. Nevertheless, a well-defined long-wave phonon subsystem exists even in this case. The hydrodynamic Hamiltonian describing the phonon subsystem is transla-tion invariant, and one may think that the temperature dependence of depletion can be explained by the phonon wind. In Landau theory, normal flow and phonon wind are synonymous, yielding a straightforward way of calculat-ing the depletion of ρs at low temperature: By Galilean invariance, the phonon wind in the reference frame mov-ing with the superfluid velocity exactly corresponds to the pure superflow in the reference frame in which the phonon subsystem is at rest. Therefore, the momentum density of the equilibrium phonon wind as a function of its (infinitesimal) velocity immediately yields the normal density ρn and ∆ ρs = −ρn:∆ρs = − Id

dd + 1 

mc (cβ )(d+1) , Id =

Z ddq

(2 π)d

qeq − 1 , (1) where m is the particle mass, c is the sound velocity, and 

β = 1 /T . To “quantify” the power and limitations of Landau theory, observe that this derivation rests on the Galilean relation between the mass density flux, jm, and momentum density, p:

jm = p (Galilean system) . (2) This relation is true no matter whether the system is in the low-temperature regime, where ρn corresponds to a dilute gas of elementary excitations (phonons), or it is in a strongly correlated regime of critical fluctuations on ap-proach to the critical temperature. However, only at suf-ficiently low temperature is Eq. (2) practically useful for obtaining ∆ ρs through the calculation of the momentum density of non-interacting elementary excitations subject to Gibbs distribution. In the absence of continuous translation invariance, the phonon wind will always decay and the genuinely equi-librium superflow regime implies the absence of phonon wind! On the one hand, it would be na¨ ıve—and, as we will argue, fundamentally wrong—to directly relate the phonon wind momentum as a function of velocity to the depletion of superfluid density. On the other hand, it is reasonable to expect (given that at T → 0 phonons are the only elementary excitations described by the uni-versal hydrodynamic Hamiltonian) that the temperature dependence of depletion is still universal and even remi-niscent of the Landau result, but is controlled by several parameters of the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian that can take rather arbitrary values in a general case. 

> arXiv:2605.00274v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 30 Apr 2026

2On the qualitative side, the general theory of deple-tion requires going beyond the harmonic effective Hamil-tonian/action. While early treatments of anharmonic terms in the Hamiltonian, H, focused on the kinetics of elementary excitations [12], our statistical treatment also considers higher-order fluctuations of the super-fluid phase field. Reproducing Landau result—originally based on a purely harmonic treatment bootstrapped by the relation (2)—using anharmonic terms in H is both instructive and immediately reveals how special the Galilean invariant systems are. In the general case, even the very notion of temperature-induced “depletion” be-comes questionable because ρs may increase with temper-ature, i.e. the theory allows depletion to be “negative”! In this Letter, we find that the low-temperature change of superfluid stiffness, ∆ ns(n, β ) = ns(n, β )−ns(n, ∞), of a d-dimensional superfluid at fixed total number density 

n (canonical ensemble) is given by the formula ( ns and 

ρs are simply related by ρs = mn s)∆ns(n, β ) = − Id

dν2(d + 1) − dγn s − (d + 2) σ/ κ

c(cβ )(d+1) , (3) 

ν = dns

dn , γ = 12d2ns

dn2 , σ = 2 ∂2E(n, k 20 )

∂(k20 )2 k0=0 

, (4) where all parameters refer to various ground-state prop-erties such as c = pns/κ, compressibility κ = dn/dμ ,chemical potential μ, energy density E(n, k 20 ) (as a func-tion of n and the square of the superflow wavevector k0), and its derivatives: superfluid stiffness ns ≡ ns(T = 0) = 2∂E(n, k 20 )/∂ (k20 ), ν, γ, and σ. Unless stated otherwise, we will work in units where Planck’s constant is set equal to unity. [The superfluid stiffness and superflow wavevec-tor are the most convenient quantities to discuss the gen-eral case, especially lattice models.] Our result, Eqs. (3)–(4), differs from the original Lan-dau formula (1) by a factor. In a Galilean system, both 

γ and σ have to be identically zero and ν = 1 /m ; this is how Eqs. (3)–(4) recover the Landau expression, while revealing its quantitative and conceptual deficiency in a general case. The relations ν = 1 /m and γ = 0 follow from the simple fact that in a Galilean system, the super-fluid density is equal to the normal density at zero tem-perature, while σ = 0 is enforced by the transformation of the system energy under a Galilean boost, see the dis-cussion under Eq. (7). On the technical side, we derive Eqs. (3)–(4) starting from Popov’s ( d + 1)-dimensional hydrodynamic action [13] based on the above-mentioned parameters and without invoking reference frame trans-formations. Strictly speaking, both Landau theory and our gen-eralized description may go beyond Eqs. (3)–(4) corre-sponding to the asymptotic regime when only the acous-tic part of the phonon branch is excited. On the one hand, as long as the gas of elementary excitations may be treated as non-interacting, Landau formula remains valid regardless of the phonon dispersion relation, e.g. it cor-rectly captures the roton contribution in 4He. [Achiev-ing the same goal in the general case is far more chal-lenging because one needs to include a large number of higher-order aharmonic terms.] On the other hand, ex-perimental observation of universal scaling 1 /c (βc )d+1 is extremely challenging even in bulk 4He under ambient pressure. Since roton contribution to the system ther-modynamics cannot be neglected already at temperature 

T > 0.5 K this power-law scaling is limited to low tem-perature T < 0.5 K when thermal depletion of ns drops below experimental resolution. The same limitation ap-plies to 4He experiments in porous/powder media where the typical pore size significantly exceeds the roton wave-length. Below we present the theory of low-temperature de-pletion of the superfluid stiffness, which yields Eq. (3) when applied to the case of an infinite system without Galilean symmetry. Based on our predictions, we discuss experiments on 4He in disordered media. While there exists experimental evidence in support of our theory, we conclude that further studies are needed to determine whether the observed scaling is truly representative of the asymptotic low-temperature regime. In a companion paper [14], we present all the technical details of our theory and also explain how to produce ex-plicit formulas for the depletion of ns in the most general case, including finite-size effects and the grand-canonical description. The companion paper also discusses the mathematically similar problem of finite-size corrections to the superfluid stiffness in finite-temperature classical-field U(1) systems, as well as provides (extra) supportive numeric results, for both classical and quantum systems. 

The theory. There are two ways to calculate ns within Popov’s formalism. One can either employ the hydrody-namic Hamiltonian or, equivalently, use the Lagrangian framework. For reasons explained below, we proceed here with the former approach. By definition, the superfluid stiffness relates the super-current density ⟨j⟩ to the infinitesimal superflow wavevec-tor k0 (constant phase gradient): 

⟨j⟩ = nsk0 (k0 → 0) . (5) In the long-wave limit, current density is given by [6] 

j = ∂H(η, ∇Φ) 

∂(∇Φ) , (6) where H(η, ∇Φ) is the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian ex-pressed in terms of the phase gradient ∇Φ and the num-ber density fluctuations η around the expectation value 

n at equilibrium. It can be derived from a perturbative expansion of the ground-state energy E(n, k 20 ) in η and 

k20 , with subsequent replacement k20 → (∇Φ) 2. For the purpose of computing the leading contribution to ∆ ns,3the relevant terms in the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian are 

H(η, ∇Φ) = n(0) 

> s

2 (∇Φ) 2 + η2

2κ + νη 

2 (∇Φ) 2

+ γη 2

2 (∇Φ) 2 + σ

4 (∇Φ) 4 .

(7) At this point it becomes clear why we must have σ = 0 in the Galilean system: The transformation law for the en-ergy forbids terms of order k40 and higher, implying that corresponding terms in the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian must vanish. By default, Popov’s hydrodynamic formalism works in the grand canonical ensemble. As such, there will be two contributions to the superfluid stiffness; the “pure” depletion due to thermal excitations, as well as deple-tion due to temperature-induced change in the total den-sity. For the purpose of generalizing Landau theory, this is a problem since Landau’s theory is formulated in the canonical ensemble. This is where the advantages of the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian are revealed. Apart from yielding an explicit expression for the current den-sity through Eq. (6), when expressed in terms of phase gradients and density deviations the Hamiltonian formal-ism allows one to identify the contributions to ∆ ns orig-inating from changes in total density. Indeed, when the phase field is separated into fluctuations around a ho-mogeneous infinitesimal superflow (assumed to be in the ˆx-direction), Φ = k0x + φ , (8) the x-component of the current density becomes (to the first order in k0)

jx = n(0)  

> s

k0 + k0[γη 2 + 2 σφ 2 

> x

+ σ(∇φ)2] + νηφ x

+ n(0)  

> s

φx + νk 0 η + σ(∇φ)2φx . (9) From here, we observe that in the canonical ensemble, the expectation value of η is identically equal to zero, meaning that the corresponding term in the second line of Eq. (9) should be omitted. Combining Eqs. (5) and (9) reveals that the problem of computing superfluid stiffness depletion now has been reduced to computing a finite number of correlation functions of the fields η and φ.For extracting the leading contribution to the depletion, it is sufficient to compute these correlators with the bi-linearized Hamiltonian 

H(η, ∇φ) = n(0) 

> s

2 (∇φ)2 + η2

2κ + k0νηφ x . (10) This implies that the remaining two terms in the second line of Eq. (9) can be omitted as they are based on odd powers of φ. Straightforward (although lengthy) calcula-tions of the expectation value of the first line in Eq. (9) yields the result (3). All technical details of these calcu-lations can be found in Ref. [14]. 

Numerics. To verify Eqs. (3)–(4), we performed Worm Algorithm path-integral Monte Carlo simulations [15, 16] 3S                        

> FIG. 1. Superfluid stiffness depletion as a function of x=(cT )3for soft-core bosons in 2D with U/t = 4 (for system size
> L×L= 64 ×64). Solid (black) curve is the f(x) = A+Bx
> theoretical prediction with A=ns(T=t/ 6) and Bfixed by the measured system parameters according to Eq. (3).

of soft-core bosons on a two-dimensional square lattice at low temperatures and system volume V = 64 × 64. The model is defined by the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian 

H = −t X

> ⟨i,j ⟩

(c† 

> i

cj + H.c.) + U X

> i

n2 

> i

− μ X

> i

ni , (11) where c† 

> i

(ci) is bosonic creation (annihilation) opera-tor on site i. By varying chemical potential in conjunc-tion with temperature to keep the number density con-stant, we work in the canonical ensemble, and, thus, ex-pect the superfluid stiffness depletion to be described by Eq. (3). All parameters entering Eq. (3) can be straight-forwardly simulated either through direct Monte Carlo estimators or through numerical derivatives. For U/t = 4 and filling factor n ≈ 0.693 we find compressibility 

κ = 0 .2974(5) t and sound velocity c = 2 .087(3) ta . Nu-merical derivatives yield the parameters ν = 1 .763(5) ta 2

and γ = −0.10(7) ta 4. The most difficult parameter to estimate is σ, for which we find σ = −0.15(10) t. The fit-free theoretical prediction with σ = −0.1t is compared to numerical results for ns in Fig. 1. The fit-free theoretical prediction falls perfectly within the statistical error bars of computed ns(T ) points. 

Universal thermodynamics. As mentioned above, the main advantage of the hydrodynamic Hamiltonian for-malism is that it allows us to work in the canonical ensemble by systematically identifying and discarding terms originating from the temperature-induced change in total density. The problem of calculating depletion in the grand canonical ensemble is simpler, and arguably more illuminating. The canonical depletion ∆ ns(n, T )4follows from the grand canonical depletion ∆ ns(μ, T ) by a simple relation ∆ns(n, T ) = ∆ ns(μ, T ) − ν∆n(μ, T ) , (12) where ∆ n(μ, T ) is the equation of state. In the absence of constraints on the total density, we can work directly with the phase-only version of Popov’s hydrodynamic action, defined by the Lagrangian density 

L(Φ) = − n(0) 

> s

2 (∇Φ) 2 − κ

2 ˙Φ2 − iκν

2 ˙Φ( ∇Φ) 2

+ κ2 ˜γ

2 ˙Φ2(∇Φ) 2 − ˜σ

4 (∇Φ) 4 ,

(13) where ˜γ = γ − κνλ 

2 , ˜σ = σ − κν2

2 , (14) and 

λ = ∂3E(n, k 20 )

∂n 3 k0=0 

. (15) Perfoming decomposition (8) and keeping only bilinear terms in the Lagrangian (13) allows one to calculate the partition function explicitly in Fourier space as a func-tion of k0. Thermodynamic quantities are generated by taking derivatives of the grand potential density, which takes the form 1

V Ω( μ, T, k 0) = T

2V

X

> k,ω

ln ϵ(k, ω ) , (16) where 

ϵ(k, ω ) = π−1[( n(0)  

> s

+ ˜ σk 20 )k2 + ( κ − κ2 ˜γk 20 )ω2

+ 2 iκνk 0ωk x + 2˜ σk 20 k2

> x

] (17) is a bi-linear function of the Fourier wavevector k and bosonic Matsubara frequency ω. Upon proper UV-regularization of Eq. (16), it generates ∆ ns(μ, T ) and ∆n(μ, T ) through derivatives over k0 and μ. The bi-linear structure of ϵ(k, ω ) implies universal T d+1 scaling (in an infinitely large system) of Ω, and, correspondingly, the thermodynamic functions generated by Ω. 

Helium in disordered media. Multiple studies have been performed on superfluid density depletion in dis-ordered media: 4He in compressed lampblack and Vy-cor [17–19] and 3He in aerogel [20]. Thus, it is natural to ask whether the experimental findings are consistent with (or relevant to) our asymptotic theory. The data for 3He in aerogel are not sufficient to clearly resolve the low-temperature regime and therefore cannot be directly compared with our results. The low-temperature data for 4He do exist, but are quite controversial. In compressed lampblack [17], the depletion measured by two different techniques—via tem-perature dependence of the frequency of U-tube and           

> FIG. 2. Period of torsional oscillator as a function of T4
> for liquid 4He in Vycor. Data was digitized from the 1.08 bar curve in Fig. 11 in Ref. [19]. Dashed line is a fit to a
> T4power law. The data was obtained in the experimental setup consisting of a torsional oscillator containing a cylinder of Vycor glass with 4He admitted to the Vycor through a narrow tube connected to a reservoir of bulk helium, kept at a constant pressure.

fourth-sound oscillations—was found to be linear in T .In Vycor, it was found [18] that the finite-temperature correction to the frequency of the fourth-sound mode scaled as T 2, in contrast to T found in lampblack and 

T 4 predicted by our theory. Finally, an almost perfect T 4 scaling was observed for 

> 4

He in Vycor, see Fig. 2 showing low-temperature data from Ref. [19] in the torsional oscillator setup at con-stant pressure. The change of the superfluid density in Vycor is due to two different effects, both, however, sup-posed to demonstrate the same T 4 low-temperature scal-ing: (i) the finite-temperature depletion at fixed density and (ii) the ground-state change of the superfluid den-sity due to the change in the chemical potential (induced by the change of the temperature of the bulk helium at fixed pressure). Unfortunately, measured temperatures are not sufficiently low to claim the asymptotic regime. Nevertheless, the absence of visible T and T 2 corrections within the given temperature interval suggests that these terms are negligible or absent altogether. 

Concluding remarks. In a Galilean system, Landau theory relates the depletion of the superfluid stiffness to the wind of elementary exitations. However, a na¨ ıve at-tempt to apply Landau theory to systems with broken Galilean symmetry immediately fails. The reason be-comes clear by studying Eq. (3). Landau’s theory of the phonon wind is fully captured by the parameter ν, origi-nating from the cubic term in the hydrodynamic Hamil-tonian (7). To correctly describe the leading contribution to the depletion, one must also include the quartic terms in the second line of Eq. (7). In fact, there exist sys-tems with certain symmetries, for instance particle-hole symmetry, where ν is identically equal to zero. In this 5case, the depletion is controlled entirely by the param-eters γ and σ fundamentally absent in Landau theory. The particle-hole symmetry may be realized by taking 

U → ∞ in the Hamiltonian (11) while keeping μ = 0 (the hard-core boson model). Superfluid stiffness deple-tion in this model has been thoroughly explored in the companion paper [14]. The other issue addressed in Ref. [14] is interplay be-tween finite-size and finite-temperature effects on the de-pletion of superfluid stiffness. At harmonic level, inverse temperature plays the role of the ( d + 1)-st spatial direc-tion in the theory. This implies, in addition to the uni-versal T d+1 scaling, a universal 1 /L d+1 scaling of ∆ ns in systems at T = 0 with slab geometries. A large portion of existing experimental data on the low-temperature depletion of ρs in 4He in three-dimensional disordered media is profoundly inconsistent with both the universal T 4 scaling and with each other— suggesting either linear or quadratic laws. Our asymptot-ically exact theory calls for further experimental studies towards resolving the controversy. Among the reasons why the low-temperature experiment with 4He in disor-dered media did not demonstrate the universal behavior found in our work we would like to emphasize (i) poten-tial lack of adiabaticity of the response of the superfluid to torsional oscillations and (ii) possible effects of long-range-correlated disorder. Extensive numeric simulations of low-temperature disordered superfluids might shed a direct light on the relevance of the latter reason. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

This work was stimulated by numerous conversations (though without reaching a consensus [21]) with Wei Ku about the scientific status of Landau theory. The dis-cussion of experiments in helium was inspired by an ex-change with Grigory Volovik. This work was supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant DMR-2335904. 

[1] P. W. Anderson, Considerations on the flow of superfluid helium, Rev. Mod. Phys. 38 , 298 (1966). [2] L. Onsager, Statistical hydrodynamics, Il Nuovo Cimento (1943-1954) 6, 279 (1949). [3] R. Feynman, Chapter II Application of quantum mechan-ics to liquid helium (Elsevier, 1955) pp. 17–53. [4] E. L. Andronikashvili and Y. G. Mamaladze, Quantiza-tion of macroscopic motions and hydrodynamics of ro-tating helium ii, Rev. Mod. Phys. 38 , 567 (1966). [5] B. Josephson, Possible new effects in superconductive tunnelling, Physics Letters 1, 251 (1962). [6] B. Svistunov, E. Babaev, and N. Prokof’ev, Superfluid States of Matter (Taylor & Francis, 2015). [7] L. Landau, Theory of the superfluidity of helium II, Phys. Rev. 60 , 356 (1941). [8] J. B. Mehl and W. Zimmermann, Flow of superfluid he-lium in a porous medium, Phys. Rev. 167 , 214 (1968). [9] M. Boninsegni, Thin helium film on a glass substrate, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 159 , 441 (2010). [10] S. Conti, A. Perali, A. R. Hamilton, M. V. Miloˇ sevi´ c, F. M. Peeters, and D. Neilson, Chester supersolid of spa-tially indirect excitons in double-layer semiconductor het-erostructures, Phys. Rev. Lett. 130 , 057001 (2023). [11] P. L´ opez R´ ıos, A. Perali, R. J. Needs, and D. Neil-son, Evidence from quantum monte carlo simulations of large-gap superfluidity and bcs-bec crossover in double electron-hole layers, Phys. Rev. Lett. 120 , 177701 (2018). [12] I. Khalatnikov, An Introduction To The Theory Of Su-perfluidity (CRC Press, 2018). [13] V. Popov, Functional Integrals in Quantum Field Theory and Statistical Physics (Springer Dordrecht, 1983). [14] V. Berger, N. Prokof’ev, and B. Svistunov, Depletion of superfluid density: Universal low-temperature thermody-namics of superfluids, Phys. Rev. B 113 , 144512 (2026). [15] N. V. Prokof’ev, B. V. Svistunov, and I. S. Tupitsyn, Ex-act, complete, and universal continuous-time worldline monte carlo approach to the statistics of discrete quan-tum systems, Journal of Experimental and Theoretical Physics 87 , 310 (1998). [16] M. Boninsegni, N. V. Prokof’ev, and B. V. Svistunov, Worm algorithm and diagrammatic monte carlo: A new approach to continuous-space path integral monte carlo simulations, Phys. Rev. E 74 , 036701 (2006). [17] F. D. M. Pobell, H. W. Chan, L. R. Corruccini, R. P. Henkel, S. W. Schwenterly, and J. D. Reppy, Low-temperature superfluid density in a restricted geometry, Phys. Rev. Lett. 28 , 542 (1972). [18] C. W. Kiewiet, H. E. Hall, and J. D. Reppy, Superfluid density in porous vycor glass, Phys. Rev. Lett. 35 , 1286 (1975). [19] C. Lie-zhao, D. F. Brewer, C. Girit, E. N. Smith, and J. D. Reppy, Flow and torsional oscillator measurements on liquid helium in restricted geometries under pressure, Phys. Rev. B 33 , 106 (1986). [20] W. P. Halperin, J. M. Parpia, and J. A. Sauls, Super-fluid helium-3 in confined quarters, Physics Today 71 ,30 (2018), https://pubs.aip.org/physicstoday/article-pdf/71/11/30/10119900/30 1 online.pdf. [21] A. Hegg, R. Jiang, J. Wang, J. Hou, T. Zeng, Y. Yildirim, and W. Ku, Universal low-temperature fluctuation of un-conventional superconductors revealed: “smoking gun” leaves proper bosonic superfluidity the last theory standing, arXiv:2402.08730 [cond-mat.supr-con] (2024), arXiv:2402.08730 [cond-mat.supr-con].