Title: In-situ tunable superconducting diode: towards field-free operation with infinite nonreciprocity

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.13254v1

Published Time: Thu, 14 May 2026 00:59:45 GMT

Number of Pages: 9

Markdown Content:
# In-situ tunable superconducting diode: towards field-free operation with infinite nonreciprocity 

Razmik A. Hovhannisyan, Taras Golod, Amirreza Lotfian, and Vladimir M. Krasnov ∗

Department of Physics, Stockholm University, AlbaNova University Center, SE-10691 Stockholm, Sweden 

(Dated: May 14, 2026) Efficient, scalable, and magnetic-field-free superconducting diodes are essential for future super-conducting electronics; yet, despite significant efforts, such practical devices remain unrealized. The main challenge lies in achieving broad-range in-situ tunability, both for optimization and for achieving transistor-like operation. Here, we study diodes based on four-terminal niobium planar Josephson junctions. We show that the multiterminal structure eliminates the need for an external magnetic field and enables essentially unrestricted in-situ tunability, along with reconfigurability of the diode polarity, leading to new functionality. For example, we demonstrate that such diodes can operate as Gauss neurons via reentrant superconductivity. By deliberately tuning the junction parameters, we obtain effectively infinite nonreciprocity (within experimental resolution) leading to threshold-free ac-current rectification. Such technologically simple, reconfigurable, and broadly tunable diodes could be instrumental for future digital and neuromorphic computing. 

INTRODUCTION 

The semiconducting field-effect transistor (FET) is his-torically the most successful electronic component driv-ing the ongoing digital revolution. The key advantage of the FET lies in its extreme in-situ tunability, with an on/off ratio of ∼ 10 4–10 6 or higher, enabling effective sig-nal isolation at VLSI and ULSI integration levels. How-ever, power dissipation in semiconducting circuits has led to a surge in energy consumption by rapidly growing data centers, posing serious sustainability challenges and mo-tivating the development of innovative post-CMOS solu-tions with improved energy efficiency [1]. The growing demand for digital data capacity has re-newed interest in the development of classical super-conducting computers [2–8], which offer the potential for drastic improvements in both speed and power ef-ficiency. However, a major challenge remains the lack of efficient, scalable, and technologically simple super-conducting analogues of key semiconductor components such as diodes and transistors. The diode is one of the simplest building blocks in semiconductor electronics, with diverse applications in signal processing and digital circuits. In recent years, the development of superconducting diodes (ScDs) has become an active area of research [9–33]. The key figures of merit for ScDs are the nonreciprocity of the critical current, A =| I+ 

> c

/I − 

> c

|.The emergence of nonreciprocity requires simultane-ous breaking of both spatial and time-reversal symme-tries. Spatial symmetry can be broken by utilizing non-centrosymmetric superconductors [15–17, 21, 27, 28] and heterostructures [18, 19, 24], or using geometrical asym-metry in vortex ratchets [10, 11, 13, 14, 26], nanowires [25, 32, 33], and Josephson junctions (JJs) [9, 12, 20, 29, 31]. The geometrical approach allows the use of conven- 

> ∗vladimir.krasnov@fysik.su.se

tional superconductors [20], making it suitable for prac-tical applications. The time reversal symmetry can be broken by applica-tion of magnetic field. However, external magnetic field is unacceptable in complex superconducting circuits. Con-sequently, efforts are underway to develop field-free ScDs [16, 19, 20, 23]. An ScD with infinite nonreciprocity could address one of the main challenges in superconducting electronics — the lack of efficient signal isolation. However, maximum nonreciprocity is achieved only under specific conditions, and in-situ adjustment is required to reach this regime. Simple and efficient tunability would enable both opti-mization of diode performance and transistor-like control of the current–voltage ( I–V ) characteristics, opening a wide range of potential applications. Thus, similarly to the case of FETs, broad-range in-situ tunability is essen-tial for the practical success of ScDs. In this work, we study ScDs based on four-terminal pla-nar Nb JJs. We aim to achieve maximal nonreciprocity without an external magnetic field. To this end, we first clarify the conditions for optimal operation and subse-quently tune the ScDs to this point. Such deliberate engi-neering has enabled the realization of a near-perfect diode with A > 1000. By exploiting the multiterminal struc-ture of our JJs, we introduce novel split-current operation modes, which provide essentially unlimited in-situ tun-ability, eliminate the need for an external magnetic field, and facilitate new functionalities such as Gauss neuron operation with reentrant superconductivity. 

RESULTS 

We study four-terminal variable-thickness-bridge type JJs made of a thin Nb film. Figures 1(a–c) show a sketch and scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of two (D1 and D2) of more than ten studied ScDs. D1 contains a JJ with a relatively large Jc and has wide electrodes (Wz = 3 .86 μm) and a shorter junction ( Wx = 4 μm). 

> arXiv:2605.13254v1 [physics.app-ph] 13 May 2026

2In contrast, a JJ in D2 has a lower Jc, much narrower electrodes, Wz = 0 .48 μm, and larger length, Wx = 5 μm. The four electrodes form an X-shape patten. The two electrodes at each side of the JJ are separated by a narrow (∼ 100 nm) notch. Characteristics of all devices are listed in the Supple-mentary. The fabrication procedure and measurement setup are described in Methods and Supplementary. 

> Self-field inductance

Nonreciprocity in our JJs is induced by the self-field effect – the back-action of the bias current on the critical current [9, 29, 34, 35]. The phenomenon is caused by a current-induced Josephson phase gradient, ∇φ, which is related to the phase gradient in the superconducting electrode, ∇φs, via the second London equation, Φ0

2π ∇φs = −A − μ0λ2

> L

Js. (1) Here, Φ 0 is the flux quantum, A is the vector potential, 

λL is the London penetration depth, and Js is the super-current density. At least three factors contribute to the self-field effect. The first contribution, the A-term in Eq. (1), gives rise to a field-induced Josephson phase gradient [9, 29, 34–36], 

∂φ ∂x = 2πWx

Hy

H0

, (2) where H0 is the flux-quantization field and Wx is the JJ width. In the considered planar geometry, Hy represents the out-of-plane field component. The current-induced self-field depends on the electrode geometry and can be enhanced by a narrow notch at the JJ edge, as illustrated in Fig. 1(a). This “true” self-field effect can be described by the geometric inductance of the electrodes, Lg .The second contribution, associated with the Js term in Eq. (1), is related to the kinetic inductance, Lk. Since 

∂φ s/∂x is determined by the x-component of Js along the JJ, Lk is enhanced by counterflowing currents in the two electrodes along the junction, similarly to the geometric inductance in the notch. However, in contrast to Lg , Lk

is not associated with a real magnetic field. The third contribution originates from a non-uniform distribution of the bias current density, Jb(x), and the Josephson critical current density, Jc(x), or other JJ pa-rameters [9, 34]. Such non-uniformity induces a phase gradient via the dc Josephson relation Jc(x) sin[ φ(x)] = 

Jb(x), which may appear unrelated to magnetic field. More precisely, it does originate from the self-field, but in the perpendicular in-plane, in our case, direction [36]. Thus, the effective self-field inductance has both geo-metric and kinetic contributions, 

Lsf = Lg + Lk. (3) 

> Reconfigurable nonreciprocity

As seen from Figs. 1(a–c), our diodes are spatially sym-metric. The symmetry breaking is introduced through asymmetric biasing [9, 20, 37]. The effective self-flux, Φsf = Lsf I∗ 

> b

, is determined by the asymmetric part of the bias current, I∗ 

> b

.Figure 1(d) shows the calculated Ic(H) modulation for the symmetric (olive) and two asymmetric bias configura-tions from left (blue) and right (red) edges. It can be seen that a symmetric bias leads to a conventional reciprocal 

Ic(H). In contrast, asymmetric biasing leads to the ap-pearance of self-field, which tilts the Ic(H) patterns. The relative displacement of the I+ 

> c

(H) and I− 

> c

(H) branches leads to nonreciprocity, I+

> c

̸ = |I− 

> c

|, and induces the ScD effect at finite field [9]. The remarkable feature of our diodes is their reconfig-urability [20]. The diode polarity can be flipped either by changing the bias configuration or the sign of the mag-netic field. Figs. 1(e) and (f) show the measured Ic(H)patterns for D1 and D2 at T = 5 K for different bias configurations. Apparently, the self-field effect in D2 is much more pronounced than in D1, demonstrating that the magnitude of the self-field effect—and thus the non-reciprocity—strongly depends on the electrode geometry and junction parameters. 

> Optimal conditions

The largest nonreciprocity is achieved when the maxi-mum of Ic(H) on one side is aligned with the minimum on the other side. The central maximum, Ic0, occurs at Φ = 0 and, therefore, appears at a field needed to com-pensate for the self-flux. The first minimum occurs at Φ = Φ 0. Since Ic(Φ 0) ≃ 0, at the minimum the self-field is negligible and the flux is created predominantly by the external field. Thus, the condition for achieving maximum nonreciprocity is Φsf = Lsf Ic0 = Φ 0. (4) Both parameters in Eq. (4) are tunable. Lsf depends on the electrode geometry near or within the JJ (see Sup-plementary Material), while Ic0 = JcWx increases with the JJ length and the critical current density. However, a constraint exists. Achieving A = ∞ requires Ic(Φ 0) = 0, which is possible only in the short-junction limit [34], 

Wx < 4λJ , (5) where λJ (Jc) is the Josephson penetration depth. There-fore, Eq. (5) imposes upper limits on both Wx and Jc.Optimization of ScD can be done both by proper geo-metric design ( Lsf , Wx,z ) and by adjustment of the junc-tion parameters ( Ic0) to satisfy Eqs. (4) and (5). How-ever, the former alternative requires physical modifica-tion of the device, while the latter enables broad in-situ 

tunability via temperature dependence, Jc(T ). 3                    

> FIG. 1. Geometry-dependent and bias-reconfigurable diodes. a A sketch of four-terminal Josephson diode. Asymmetric application of a bias current at one edge of the junction induces an effective self-flux Φ sf back-acting on the critical current. b
> and cSEM images (false colour) of D1 and D2 devices with wide and narrow electrodes. Planar junctions are marked by orange lines. dCalculated Ic(H) for a symmetric (olive) and asymmetric bias from left (blue) or right (red) edges. The self-field effect tilts the Ic(H) patterns and induces nonreciprocity at finite field. eand fMeasured Ic(H) of D1 and D2 at T= 5 K for three bias configurations as in d. Note that the tilt of Ic(H) is much larger for D2, despite a smaller Ic.
> Tuning by temperature

As can be seen from Fig. 1(f), D2 at T = 5 K is charac-terized by a large self-field with the central lobe displace-ment by more than 3 H0. However, the nonreciprocity is modest, A ≃ 7, for two reasons: the maxima are not aligned with the opposing minima, and the minima do not vanish because the JJ is in the long limit, as indi-cated by the broad triangular central lobe of Ic(H) [34]. Fine-tuning of D2 was performed by raising the tem-perature. Figure 2(a) shows the Ic(H) pattern at T ≃

6.5 K. The Ic0 was reduced, bringing the junction into the short limit, Wx = 3 λJ , as follows from the numerical fit (black line). Importantly, the central maxima at this 

T is aligned with the opposing first minima. Fig. 2(b) shows the I–V s at the fields of maximum non-reciprocity, H = ±5.5 Oe. It is seen that Ic is significant 

| Ic(max) |≃ 100 μA) in one direction but undetectable in the opposite direction. To evaluate the precision of the 

Ic(min) cancellation, we performed accurate lock-in mea-surements, presented in Fig. 2(c). The offset-free Ohmic behaviour indicates that | Ic(min) |= 0 within our ex-perimental resolution ( ∼ 0.1 μA). Thus, conscious opti-mization led to the realization of a perfect (within the resolution) ScD with A > 10 3.

> Threshold-free rectification

Signal processing by ac-signal rectification is one of the main diode applications. Figs. 2(d-f) summarize rec-tification of an ac-transport current by D2. Fig. 2(d) shows the sinusoidal current wave and instantaneous volt-ages measured at H = ±5.5 Oe. The current amplitude, 

Iac = 75 μA < I c(max) ≃ 100 μA. Therefore, the voltage appears only at one half of the period, either negative for 

H = 5 .5 Oe, or positive for H = −5.5 Oe. Importantly, the optimized diode exhibits threshold-free rectification, as shown in Fig. 2(c), in contrast to unoptimized diodes with finite nonreciprocity [20]. Figure 2(e) shows the dependence of rectified dc-voltage on the ac-current amplitude. The dc voltage first increases with increasing Iac , however at Iac > I c(max) it starts to decrease due to appearance of the opposite signal at the second half of the period [20]. Fig. 2(f) shows magnetic field dependence of the rec-tified voltage at Iac = 50 μA. The oscillatory Vdc (H)dependence reflects the shape of Ic(H) modulation, Fig. 2a, and the related oscillation of nonreciprocity [9, 20]. The black lines in Figs. 2(e) and (f) represent numerical modelling using the actual JJ parameters (see Methods), in good agreement with the experimental data. 4                                      

> FIG. 2. Threshold-free rectification of thermally tuned near-perfect diode D2. aThe measured Ic(H) modulation (colour map of differential resistance) in the left-edge bias configuration at T= 6 .5 K. The black dotted line represents a numerical fit for Wx= 3 λJ.bThe I-Vs at H=±5.5 Oe, indicated by arrows in (a). Note that the critical current is significant, ∼100 μA, in one direction, but vanishing in the opposite direction. cHigh-resolution lock-in measurements at
> H=−5.5 Oe. The threshold-free Ohmic behavior confirms the absence of the critical current. dTime dependence of the ac transport current at f= 23 Hz (bottom) and instantaneous voltages measured at magnetic fields of 5.5 Oe (blue) and -5.5 Oe (red). eRectified dc-voltage as a function of ac-current amplitude for H=±5.5 Oe. fMagnetic field dependence of the rectified dc-voltage (symbols) at Iac = 50 μA. Black lines in (e) and (f) represent numerical calculations.
> Split-current operation mode

The nonreciprocity of our diodes is determined by the tilt of Ic(H) patterns. As can be seen from Figs. 1(d) and (f), proper engineering enables practically verti-cal Ic(H) slopes. However, according to earlier studies [29, 34, 35], the self-field effect can not over-tilt Ic(H)more than that, i.e. can not change the sign of the slope 

dI c/dH . This restriction is removed in our X-shaped JJs. The four-terminal JJ structure enables sending cur-rents in two arms simultaneously [29, 35], as sketched in the top panel of Figure 3(a). A bias part, Ib, passes through the JJ, while the other part, ICL , flows along the electrode acting as the control line (CL). Figure 3(b) shows Ic(H) for D2 at T = 6 .5 K in the split-current mode with ICL /I b = 1. It can be seen that the tilt of the Ic(H) pattern doubled compared to the ordinary bias mode at the same conditions, Fig. 2(a). The extent of CL-current contribution to the self-field effect is determined by the split ratio ICL /I b. Fig. 3(c) shows numerically simulated Ic(H) patterns for several split ratios. Simulations are made for a short JJ with a symmetric bias Ib(x) = const, which leads to a recipro-cal Fraunhofer modulation in the absence of ICL (black line). The addition of ICL tilts the Ic(H) patterns in proportion to ICL /I b. Since this ratio is unrestricted, the diode tunability is almost unlimited. In particular, it becomes possible to surpass the restriction on the sign change of dI c/dH achieving an overlap of the central lobe with subsequent higher-order lobes. Fig. 3(d) shows a measured Ic(H) for D2 at lower 

T = 5 K with ICL /I b = 1. In contrast to the correspond-ing pattern at ICL /I b = 0 shown in Fig. 1(f), here the central lobe is over-tilted so much that it overlaps with five subsequent lobes. Fig. 3(e) demonstrates the devel-opment of the I–V ’s in the overlap region. It is seen that a profound nonmonotonous behaviour emerges. In Fig. 3(f) we focus on the I-V at H = 30 Oe. With increasing current, the JJ first switches to the resistive state at Ic1 ≃ 150 μA corresponding to the fourth lobe in the Ic(H) pattern from Fig. 3 (d). With further increase of the current, the voltage decreases back to zero at Ic2 ≃ 500 μA, which corresponds to the lower edge of the over-tilted central lobe. Emergence of such reentrant superconductivity is accompanied by the appearance of negative differential resistance, marked by blue colour in 5

FIG. 3. Split-current operation: unrestricted tunability and reentrant superconductivity. a Schematics of the split-current and control-line operation modes. b The measured Ic(H) colour map of D2 at T = 6 .5 K for ICL /I b = 1. The dashed black line shows the numerically modelled Ic(H) pattern. c Calculated Ic(H) patterns for a short junction in the split-current mode. Note appearance of over-tilting at two largest split ratios. d The measured Ic(H) colour map of D2 at T = 5 K for ICL /I b = 1. The self-flux becomes so large that the central lobe of Ic(H) overlaps with five higher-order lobes. The blue area marks the region of negative differential resistance. The black line represents the calculated Ic(H) for Wx/λ J = 8. e Evolution of the current–voltage characteristics in the region of negative differential resistance from (d). f Demonstration of reentrant superconductivity upon increasing bias current and Gauss-neuron operation. The blue line shows the I-V at H = 30 Oe. The red line represents the Gaussian fit. 

Fig. 3 (d). Finally, above Ic3 ≃ 700 μA, corresponding to the upper edge of the central lobe, the sample goes in the ordinary (monotonous) resistive state. 

Control line operation mode 

An external magnetic field is undesirable in complex superconducting circuits. However, it is often required for device operation. In superconducting digital electron-ics, the need for an external field is avoided by employ-ing control lines [2, 7, 8]. The multiterminal geometry of our device enables CL operation, using JJ electrodes, as sketched in the bottom panel of Fig. 3(a). Figure 4(a) shows measured Ic(H) patterns without (middle curve) and with constant ICL = ±150 μA (left and right curves) for a diode D3. It is seen that the CL current simply shifts the Ic(H) patterns without chang-ing their shape. Fig. 4(b) shows the fields of the central positive and negative maxima, I+ 

> c

(max) and I− 

> c

(max), as well as the first positive and negative minima, I+ 

> c

(min) and I− 

> c

(min), as a function of ICL . It can be seen that the CL current creates an effective local field in the JJ 

∼ 15 Oe per 1 mA. The horizontal dashed line in Fig. 4(b) indicates that the points of maximum nonreciprocity are brought to H = 0 at ICL ≃ ± 100 μA for this device. Figure 4(c) shows the measured Ic vs. ICL at zero external field for D4. The maximum nonreciprocity at 

H = 0 for this device is achieved at ICL = ±150 μA. Thus, an external magnetic field is not required for the operation of our diodes. Due to the multiterminal con-figuration, they can be comfortably operated at H = 0 using small control line currents on the order of 100 μA. 6                     

> FIG. 4. Control-line operation mode without an external magnetic field. a Measured Ic(H) modulation for D3, at different control line currents applied along one of junction electrodes, ICL = 150 ,0,−150 μA (left, middle, right curves). b
> Field positions of the main maxima (solid lines) and the first minima (dashed lines) of Ic(H) as a function of ICL for D3. The horizontal dashed line indicates that the points of maximum nonreciprocity occur at zero external field for ICL ≃ ± 100 μA. c
> Measured critical current as a function of the control-line current ICL for a device D4 at zero external field. The inset shows the sketch of current flow. The maximum nonreciprocity without external magnetic field is achieved at ICL ≃ ± 340 μA.
> DISCUSSION

The studied here ScDs are technologically and concep-tually simple. They are based on conventional low-Tc

Nb JJs and rely on geometric symmetry breaking, which can be precisely controlled and tailored to achieve the desired characteristics. The specified conditions for op-timal operation, Eqs. (4) and (5), together with quanti-tative estimates of self-field inductances presented in the Supplementary Material, enable the rational design and engineering of such diodes. A characteristic feature of our diodes is their inherent reconfigurability enabled by the multiterminal structure. As shown in Fig. 1(f), the diode polarity can be readily reversed by changing the bias configuration. Such recon-figurability could be instrumental for building advanced electronic components [20, 25], including programmable logic gates, switchable signal routers, and multiplexers. Two strategies for achieving infinite nonreciprocity have been presented. The first is based on careful ge-ometric engineering, with final fine-tuning via tempera-ture adjustment (Fig. 2). This approach is suitable for signal routing without leakage to other channels. The second approach, representing the central novelty of this work, lies in the introduction of split-current and control-line operation modes. The split-current mode allows essentially unlimited in-situ tunability (Fig. 3), while the CL mode enables operation without an exter-nal magnetic field (Fig. 4). Both modes exploit the four-terminal structure of our JJs, which allows a portion of the current to flow along the JJ electrode, acting as a control line, as sketched in Fig. 3(a). The difference between the modes lies in the value and control of ICL . In the split-current mode, a single current source is connected to one of the four terminals, while two other terminals are grounded via series resistors RCL and 

Rb. In this configuration, the split-current ratio remains constant, ICL /I b = Rb/R CL . In contrast, the CL mode employs two independent current sources, such that ICL 

is fixed, while the ratio ICL /I b is variable. The CL contribution to the self-flux is, Φsf = LJJ Ib + LCL ICL = LJJ Ib



1 + LCL 

LJJ 

ICL 

Ib



, (6) where LJJ and LCL are the self-field inductances of the JJ and the CL, respectively. In the conventional bias mode considered so far [20, 31], only the first term is present. As follows from Eq. (6), the split-current mode enables broad tunability via the unrestricted ICL /I b.In principle, any diode can be brought to the optimal operating point, Eq. (4), without physical modification by selecting an appropriate split ratio. However, this broad tunability comes at the expense of reduced sensi-tivity. Since ICL does not pass through the JJ, it does not contribute to the voltage response and may, for example, reduce the rectification efficiency. Therefore, the split-current mode should not be re-garded as a universal approach for transforming an im-perfect device into an ideal diode. Rather, it serves as a tool for fine-tuning a reasonably well-performing diode. For example, it can be used to eliminate a small residual threshold current. In this case, the gain in sensitivity due to the removal of the threshold can outweigh the loss of sensitivity caused by current splitting. The purpose of the CL operation mode is to eliminate the need for an external magnetic field. This is a stan-dard approach in superconducting electronics [2, 7, 8]. A unique feature of our diodes is that they do not require an additional control line. This represents a significant advantage for complex and densely integrated circuits, alleviating the interconnect bottleneck problem. A critical consideration for dense circuits is the degree to which the CL current is localized and the magnitude 7of cross-talk it may induce. A common strategy to re-duce stray magnetic fields in superconducting circuits is the introduction of a ground plane, which confines the in-plane magnetic field to the narrow separation region between two films while cancelling it outside the struc-ture. This approach is well suited for self-field diodes based on overlap-type JJs [9, 29]. However, for planar JJs, a ground plane suppresses the out-of-plane magnetic field and thereby eliminates the first of the three self-field contributions discussed above, namely Lg . In contrast, the second contribution, Lk, remains unaffected, while the third contribution may even be enhanced. The observed pronounced difference in the Ic(H) pat-terns of D1 and D2 in Figs. 1(e) and (f) clarifies the main contribution to Lsf . The Lg part is determined by the geometries of notches, which are similar for D1 and D2. The Lk part depends on the current density and scales as Lk ∝ Wx/W z . For D1, Wx/W z ≃ 1, while for D2 it is ≃ 10. Therefore, Lg (D2) ≃ Lg (D1), while 

Lk(D2) ≃ 10 Lk(D1). Thus, the observed large difference between D1 and D2 indicates the dominance of the ki-netic contribution to Lsf . Consequently, if required, a ground plane can be implemented in such diodes with minimal impact on their operation. Furthermore, since 

Lk is not associated with a real magnetic field, it is not expected to generate significant cross-talk, even in the absence of a ground plane. The most striking evidence for the unrestricted tun-ability of our ScDs is provided by the observation of a strong over-tilting of the Ic(H) patterns (Fig. 3(d)), ex-ceeding by a wide margin the self-field limit for conven-tional JJs [34]. As shown in Figs. 3(e) and (f), the over-lap of the central Ic(H) lobe with subsequent secondary lobes leads to reentrant superconductivity with increas-ing current. This was surprising since the possibility of over-tilting has not been predicted before [29, 34, 35]. The observed reentrance is distinct from reports of reentrant unconventional superconductivity induced by variations of some external parameter [38, 39]. In our case, it originates from the coexistence of three critical currents Ic1,2,3 under identical conditions, Fig. 3(f). Multivalued critical currents have been reported be-fore in phase-shifted long JJs [40, 41] and are commonly observed in JJ arrays [42, 43]. However, such metastabil-ity is typically accompanied by hysteretic behavior. In contrast, the I–V s of our diodes are fully reversible. The nonhysteretic reentrant I-V enables new function-ality. For example, it allows for a simple realization of a Gauss neuron for neuromorphic computing [44–46]. The red line in Fig. 3(f) represents a Gaussian fit, indicating that this JJ is a compact, ready-to-use Gauss neuron. Finally, we discuss the significance of the pursuit of higher nonreciprocity: does it need to be infinite? The answer depends on the specific application. For the con-struction of logic gates and related digital components, a modest A ∼ 2–4 may be sufficient. Infinite nonreciprocity is required in two cases. First, for the processing of small high-frequency signals, since 

A = ∞ eliminates the threshold for signal detection, as demonstrated in Fig. 2(c). Second, a perfect ScD would solve a major problem with signal isolation in complex superconducting circuits. In semiconducting electronics, a single FET on a line can open/close it for signal transmission, owing to the large on/off ratio. Superconducting electronics lacks an equivalent switching element, leading to current leakage into multiple interconnections. Experience from semi-conducting electronics shows that on/off ratios > 10 4 are required to suppress current leakage to acceptable levels in VLSI and ULSI circuits. Accordingly, reconfigurable and/or tunable ScDs with A > 10 4 would be indispens-able for signal routing and mitigation of current leakage. The level of current isolation achieved here, A > 10 3,represents a crucial step towards this goal. To conclude, we have demonstrated prototypes of tun-able diodes based on a conventional niobium supercon-ductor. We show that the multiterminal structure of such diodes enables both reconfigurability of the diode polarity and essentially unrestricted in-situ tunability, which together may enable transistor-like operation—the key missing element in superconducting electronics. The split-current modes introduced here enable operation without an external magnetic field and provide additional functionality. These compact, technologically scalable, and robust “geometrical” diodes, suitable for practical applications, may enable the simple realization of super-conducting logic and AI components, as well as signal routing and effective current isolation, thereby opening new avenues in digital and neuromorphic computation.                  

> [1] https://www.iea.org/reports/electricity-2024/executive-summary [2] Likharev, K.K. and Semenov, V.K. RSFQ logic/memory family: A new Josephson-junction technology for sub-terahertz-clock-frequency digital systems. IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. ,1(1) , 3-28 (1991). [3] Holmes, D. S., Ripple, A. L., &Manheimer, M. A. Energy-efficient superconducting computing—Power budgets and requirements. IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond.
> 23 , 1701610 (2013) [4] Ortlepp, T. & Van Duzer, T. Access time and power dissipation of a model 256-bit single flux quantum RAM.
> IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 24 , 1300307 (2014). [5] Golod, T., Iovan, A. & Krasnov, V.M. Single Abrikosov vortices as quantized information bits. Nat. Commun. 6,8628 (2015). [6] Soloviev, I. I. et al. Beyond Moore’s technologies: opera-tion principles of a superconductor alternative. Beilstein J. Nanotechnol. 8, 2689 (2017). [7] Tolpygo, S. K. et. al. Advanced fabrication processes for

8

superconductor electronics: current status and new de-velopments. IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. 29 , 1102513 (2019). [8] Kirichenko, A. F., Vernik, I. V., Kamkar, M. Y., Walter, J., Miller, M., Albu, L. R. & Mukhanov, O. A. ERSFQ 8-Bit Parallel Arithmetic Logic Unit. IEEE Trans. Appl. Supercond. , 29 , 1302407 (2019). [9] Krasnov, V.M., Oboznov, V.A. and Pedersen, N.F. Fluxon dynamics in long Josephson junctions in the pres-ence of a temperature gradient or spatial nonuniformity. 

Phys. Rev. B ,55 , 14486 1997. [10] Weiss, S., Koelle, D., M¨ uller, J., Gross, R., & Barthel, K, Ratchet effect in dc SQUIDs. Europhys. Lett. 51 , 499 (2000). [11] Villegas, J. E. et al. A superconducting reversible rectifier that controls the motion of magnetic flux quanta. Science 

302 , 1188 (2003). [12] Beck, M. et al. High-efficiency deterministic Josephson vortex ratchet. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 , 090603 (2005). [13] de Souza Silva, C. C., Van de Vondel, J., Morelle, M. & Moshchalkov, V. V. Controlled multiple reversals of a ratchet effect. Nature 440 , 651 (2006). [14] Lustikova, J. et al. Vortex rectenna powered by environ-mental fluctuations. Nat. Commun. 10 , 1038 (2018). [15] Ando, F. et al. Observation of superconducting diode ef-fect. Nature 584 , 373 (2020). [16] Wu, H. et al. The field-free Josephson diode in a van der Waals heterostructure. Nature 604 , 653 (2022). [17] Lin, J.-X. et al. Zero-field superconducting diode effect in small-twist-angle trilayer graphene. Nat. Phys. 18 , 1221-1227 (2022). [18] Baumgartner, C. et al. Supercurrent rectification and magnetochiral effects in symmetric Josephson junctions. 

Nat. Nanotechn. . 17 , 39 (2022). [19] Narita, H., Ishizuka, J., Kawarazaki, R., Kan, D., Sh-iota, Y., Moriyama, T., Shimakawa, Y., Ognev, A.V., Samardak, A.S., Yanase, Y. & Ono, T. Field-free super-conducting diode effect in noncentrosymmetric supercon-ductor/ferromagnet multilayers. Nat. Nanotechn. 17(8) ,823-828 (2022). [20] Golod, T. and Krasnov, V.M. Demonstration of a su-perconducting diode-with-memory, operational at zero magnetic field with switchable nonreciprocity. Nat. Com-mun. , 13 , 3658 (2022). [21] Nadeem, M., Fuhrer, M.S., & Wang, X.L. The supercon-ducting diode effect. Nat. Rev. Phys. 5, 558-577 (2023). [22] Gupta, M., Graziano, G.V., Pendharkar, M., Dong, J.T., Dempsey, C.P., Palmstrom, C. & Pribiag, V.S. Gate-tunable superconducting diode effect in a three-terminal Josephson device. Nat. Com. 14 , 3078 (2023). [23] Chiles, J. et. al. Nonreciprocal Supercurrents in a Field-Free Graphene Josephson Triode. Nano Lett. 23 , 5257 (2023). [24] Sundaresh, A., V¨ ayrynen, J., Lyanda-Geller, Y., &Rokhinson, L.P. Diamagnetic mechanism of critical cur-rent non-reciprocity in multilayered superconductors. 

Nat. Com. 14 , 1628 (2023). [25] Margineda, D. et. al. Sign reversal diode effect in su-perconducting Dayem nanobridges. Com. Phys. 6, 343 (2023). [26] Gutfreund, A., Matsuki, H., Plastovets, V., Noah A., Gorzawski, L., Fridman, N., Yang, G., Buzdin, A., Millo, O., Robinson, J.W.A., and Anahory, Y. Direct observa-tion of a superconducting vortex diode. Nat. Com. 14 ,1630 (2023). [27] Nagaosa, N. & Yanase, Y. Nonreciprocal Transport and Optical Phenomena in Quantum Materials. Ann. Rev. Cond. Mat. Phys. 15 , 63-83 (2024) [28] Banerjee, S., & Scheurer, M.S., Altermagnetic supercon-ducting diode effect. Phys. Rev. B. 110 , 024503 (2024). [29] Guarcello, C., Pagano, S., & Filatrella, G. Efficiency of diode effect in asymmetric inline long Josephson junc-tions. Appl. Phys. Lett. 124 , 162601 (2024). [30] Ghosh, S. et. al. High-temperature Josephson diode. Nat. Mat. 23 , 612 (2024). [31] C. Schmid, A. Jozani, R. Kleiner, D. Koelle, & E. Goldobin, YBa 2Cu 3O7 Josephson diode fabricated by focused-helium-ion-beam irradiation. Phys. Rev. Appl. 

24 , 014041 (2025). [32] Margineda, D. et. al. Back-action supercurrent rectifiers. 

Com. Phys. 8, 16 (2025). [33] Castellani, M., Medeiros, O., Buzzi, A., Foster, R. A., Colangelo, M., Berggren, K. K. A superconducting full-wave bridge rectifier. Nat. Electr. 8, 417 (2025). [34] Vasenko, S. A., Likharev, K. K., Semenov, V. K. Static properties of distributed inhomogeneous Josephson junc-tions. Sov. Phys. JETP 54 , 766-771 (1981). [35] Monaco, R., Mygind, J., Koshelets, V. P. Long Josephson tunnel junctions with doubly connected electrodes. Phys. Rev. B 85 , 094514 (2012). [36] Krasnov, V.M., Josephson junctions in a local inhomoge-neous magnetic field. Phys. Rev. B , 101 , 144507 (2020). [37] Golod, T., Kapran, O. M. & Krasnov, V. M. Planar superconductor-ferromagnet- superconductor Josephson junctions as scanning-probe sensors. Phys. Rev. Appl. 11 ,014062 (2019). [38] Knebel, G., Knafo, W., Pourret, A., Niu, Q., Valiˇ ska, M., Braithwaite, D., Lapertot, G., Nardone, M., Zitouni, A., Mishra, S. and Sheikin, I. Field-reentrant superconduc-tivity close to a metamagnetic transition in the heavy-fermion superconductor UTe2. Journal of the Physical Society of Japan , 88(6) , 063707 (2019). [39] Zdravkov, V. I., et al., Reentrant superconductivity in superconductor/ferromagnetic-alloy bilayers. Phys. Rev. B. 82 , 054517 (2010). [40] Goldobin, E., Sickinger, H., Weides, M., Ruppelt, N., Kohlstedt, H., Kleiner, R., D. Koelle, D. Memory cell based on a φ Josephson junction. Appl. Phys. Lett. 102 ,242602 (2013). [41] Hovhannisyan, R., Golod, T. , Krasnov, V. M. Control-lable Manipulation of Semifluxon States in Phase-Shifted Josephson Junctions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 132 227001 (2024) [42] Krasnov, V. M., Oboznov, V. A., Ryazanov, V. V., Mros, N., Yurgens, A., Winkler, D. Comparison of Josephson fluxon modes in high- and low-temperature supercon-ducting stacked Josephson junctions. Phys. Rev. B 61 ,766 (2000). [43] Grebenchuk, S. Yu., Cattaneo, R., Krasnov, V. M. Non-local Long-Range Synchronization of Planar Josephson-Junction Arrays. Phys. Rev. Appl. 17 , 064032 (2022). [44] Schegolev, A. E., Klenov, N. V., Soloviev, I. I., Tereshonok, M. V. Adiabatic superconducting cells for ultra-low-power artificial neural networks. Beilstein J. Nanotechn. 7, 1397–1403 (2016). [45] Beck, M.E., Shylendra, A., Sangwan, V.K. et al. Spiking neurons from tunable Gaussian heterojunction transis-tors. Nat. Commun. 11 , 1565 (2020). [46] Razorenov, F. A., Ionin, A. S., Shuravin, N. S., Karelina, 9  

> L. N., Sidel’nikov, M. S., Egorov, S. V., Bol’ginov, V. V. Transfer function of an asymmetric superconducting Gauss neuron. Beilstein J. Nanotechnol. 16 , 1160–1170 (2025).
> METHODS

Device fabrication . The diodes were fabricated from a single thin (70 nm) niobium film, deposited by DC magnetron sputtering. The electrodes were patterned by photolithography and reactive ion etching. The variable thickness bridge-type planar JJs were made by Ga + fo-cused ion beam (FIB) etching (a single line cut). The junction linear current density depends on cut depth. For D1 and D2 devices nominal depths were 100 and 120 nm, respectively, leading to significantly smaller Jc for D2. At each side of the JJ, narrow notches separating JJ electrodes were made. The self-field is generated in the notches and the narrow width ∼ 100 nm of the notches increases the geometric self-field inductance. The quanti-tative estimation of geometric and kinetic contributions to Lsf is provided in the Supplementary. To determine the optimization strategy, several batches were made, each containing several diodes with different junction parameters and electrode geometries. In total more than ten diodes were analyzed in this study (see the Supplementary). Some diodes were post-processed by FIB to modify electrode geometry. Such modification is seen as two dark rectangles (FIB-etched areas) in the SEM image of D2, Fig. 1(c). 

Experimental methods . The measurements were performed in a closed-cycle cryostat. The magnetic field perpendicular to the film was supplied by a supercon-ducting solenoid. All I-V s presented in this manuscript are non-hysteretic. High-precision lock-in measurements, Fig. 2 (c), were performed using a 30 s averaging time. 

Numerical modeling .The numerical simulations of the Ic(H) characteristics shown in Figs. 1(d) 2(a,e,f) and 3(b-d) were performed within the framework of the one-dimensional sine-Gordon model: 

∂2φ∂ ¯x2 − ∂2φ∂¯t2 − α ∂φ ∂¯t = sin φ, (7) where α is the quasiparticle damping parameter. The spatial coordinate ¯ x is normalized by λJ , and time ¯ t by the inverse plasma frequency ω−1 

> p

. Calculations were per-formed in the overdamped case, α = 1. The self-field back-action is introduced via the bound-ary conditions: 

∂φ ∂x x=0 ,W x

= 2πWxH0

(He + Hsf + HCL ) , (8) where He is the externally applied magnetic field. The self-field Hsf arises from the asymmetric spatial distri-bution of the bias current I∗ 

> b

(x). The corresponding ef-fective self-flux can be estimated as Φsf = Lsf I∗ 

> b

≃ λJ

Wx

Φ0

H0

Hsf , (9) where the factor λJ /W x reflects the exponential decay of flux at x ∼ λJ . The CL contribution is given by 

HCL = Hsf /2 · ICL /I ∗ 

> b

, where the factor of 2 reflects that the CL current flows along only one edge of the junction. Because of the asymmetric current injection, the self-field affects only one edge of the JJ. Consequently, full compensation requires an external field He = −Hsf /2, as He contributes symmetrically to both boundaries. To simulate the dynamic rectification, Figs. 2(e,f), a time-dependent ac-bias current was applied in the form: 

I∗ 

> b

= Iac sin( ωt ), (10) with ω = 0 .01 ωp (the low-frequency regime). Additional simulation details are provided in the Sup-plementary Information. 

> Acknowledgements Author Contributions

R.A.H. performed measurements, analyzed data, car-ried out numerical simulations and participated in writ-ing the manuscript. T.G. fabricated samples. A.L. con-tributed to transport measurements. V.M.K. conceived the project and wrote the manuscript with input from all authors. 

> Data availability

Authors confirm that all relevant data are included in the paper and its supplementary information files. Ad-ditional data can be provided upon reasonable request. 

> Competing Interests

The authors declare no competing interests.