Title: Observation of microscopic domain effects in the metal-insulator transition of thin-film NdNiO$_3$

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.21405v1

Published Time: Tue, 24 Mar 2026 01:53:33 GMT

Number of Pages: 54

Markdown Content:
# Observation of microscopic domain effects in the metal-insulator transition of thin-film NdNiO 3

## Lucy S. Nathwani ,† Anne Ruperto ,† Ashvini Vallipuram ,† Abigail Y. Jiang ,‡,† Grace A. Pan ,† Dan Ferenc Segedin ,† Ari B. Turkiewicz ,†

## Charles M. Brooks ,† Jarad A. Mason ,∗,¶ Qichen Song ,∗,¶ and Julia A. Mundy ∗,†,‡

†Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

‡John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

¶Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

E-mail: mason@chemistry.harvard.edu; qichensong@g.harvard.edu; mundy@fas.harvard.edu 

Abstract 

Perovskite oxides display correlated electrical, magnetic, and thermal properties that can be further tuned in the thin-film limit, making them contenders for next-generation electronics. Measuring thermal transport in thin films is challenging, be-cause traditional techniques are dominated by the substrate. Here, frequency-domain thermoreflectance (FDTR) of an epitaxial NdNiO 3 thin film reveals a sharp change in out-of-plane thermal conductivity across the metal–insulator transition. Complemen-tary frequency-domain photoreflectance (FDPR) reveals a large change in ambipolar diffusivity of photoexcited carriers. While the in-plane electrical resistance shows large hysteresis, out-of-plane thermal and charge transport shows negligible hysteresis. We 

1  

> arXiv:2603.21405v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall] 22 Mar 2026 attribute this discrepancy to anisotropy in the percolation of nanoscale domains across the transition as the film thickness approaches the domain length scale. We estab-lish FDTR and FDPR as sensitive probes of quantum material phase transitions and highlight NdNiO 3for thermal control and memory applications.

As the demand for miniaturized, energy-efficient electronics grows, materials that un-dergo temperature-driven metal–insulator transitions (MIT) have emerged as candidates for next-generation technologies, including thermal switches for heat regulation, smart win-dows for thermochromic glazing, nonvolatile memristors for data storage, and neuromorphic computing elements for brain-inspired computing. 1–4 Among these, rare-earth perovskite nickelates, RNiO 3 (R = La, Pr, Nd...), are model systems due to their highly tunable phase transitions. 5–8 In particular, neodymium nickelate, NdNiO 3, undergoes a first-order phase transition from a paramagnetic metallic state to an antiferromagnetic insulating state, with a concomitant change in the crystal structure at the highest temperature of the RNiO 3 se-ries. It exhibits thermal hysteresis due to percolation across domains that emerge during the transition. 9–11 In single crystal NdNiO 3, this transition occurs near 200 K. However, in the thin-film limit, the transition temperature can be tuned through epitaxial strain and film thickness, 5,12–15 making it highly adaptable for integration into electronic devices. While most studies have focused on the electrical and magnetic properties of thin film NdNiO 3,its thermal properties are highly relevant for its practical applications in devices. Fully ex-ploiting these materials in next-generation devices, however, requires an understanding of anisotropic charge and heat transport at the nanoscale, particularly as the thickness of the film approaches the length scales of domain formation during the phase transition. Measuring thermal transport in ultrathin films remains challenging due to the limited sensitivity of conventional bulk techniques, as traditional measurements of thermal conduc-tivity using an applied heat source and a voltage measurement are dominated by substrate contributions. 16 While 3 ω techniques offer improved sensitivity to thin films, they require complex and invasive sample preparation and lack spatial resolution. 17 Noncontact optical 2reflectance-based techniques provide an alternative avenue that addresses these limitations. 18 

In particular, frequency-domain thermoreflectance (FDTR) 19,20 is capable of measuring the thermal conductivity of films as thin as several tens of nanometers, while requiring only min-imal sample preparation (i.e., depositing a metallic transducer). FDTR can even measure thermal transport in monolayer materials like graphene, depending on the film composi-tion and the substrate, 21,22 and it can be used to map thermal properties with micrometer resolution (Figure S4). The same optical setup without a transducer layer can be used to perform frequency-domain photoreflectance (FDPR), further allowing the charge and ther-mal transport to be probed simultaneously. 23 Additionally, FDTR is particularly sensitive to the cross-plane thermal conductivity. Scanning thermal microscopy (SThM) techniques have been used to measure the cross-plane thermal conductivity at higher spatial resolution, but these techniques require specialized sample preparation and calibration to gain sensitiv-ity to multiple sample thicknesses simultaneously. 24 With FDTR and FDPR, we can obtain ambipolar diffusivity with no sample preparation and thermal conductivity by depositing only a transducer layer. In this work, we use FDTR to measure the thermal conductivity of a 57.5 nm thick epitaxial NdNiO 3 film grown on a LaAlO 3 substrate across its metal–insulator transition, the thinnest such epitaxial oxide measured with FDTR to date. While we observe strong hysteresis in the in-plane electrical transport, consistent with prior measurements, 9,12,25 we observe significantly reduced hysteresis in the thermal conductivity during heating and cool-ing cycles. We also perform the first demonstration of FDPR measurements on a thin film over a wide modulation-frequency bandwidth; we model the laser-induced charge transport as ambipolar diffusion in which electrons and holes diffuse according to their density gra-dients before recombination. We observe a significant change in the ambipolar diffusivity across the transition, accompanied by weaker hysteresis. The suppressed hysteresis in both thermal and charge transport is attributed to geometric anisotropy in the thin-film archi-tecture, where the domain size is constrained by the film thickness, limiting percolation in 3the out-of-plane direction. These findings demonstrate the power of a local probe to re-solve the nanoscale phase separation that governs the dynamics of tunable MITs in thin-film correlated oxides. In bulk single crystals of NdNiO 3, the MIT is accompanied by a subtle structural tran-sition from orthorhombic (Pbnm) to monoclinic (P2 1/n) symmetry (Figure 1a,b); 5,7,26 the transition has a thermal hysteresis of ∼4 K. In epitaxial thin films, the hysteresis increases to ∼30 K due to epitaxial strain. 11,27 We synthesize thin-film NdNiO 3 using ozone-assisted molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE) for atomic-layer control of the film deposition (see Fig-ures S1-S3). Electrical transport measurements of our thin-film sample show a sharp change from metallic to insulating behavior in bulk resistivity measurements upon cooling at Tcool 

= 91 K, and we observe the reverse change at Theat = 124 K during heating (Figure 1c). The biaxial compressive strain imposed by the LaAlO 3 substrate lowers TMIT by over 70 K, consistent with prior observations of strain-induced suppression of TMIT .5,12 

Figure 1: (a) Distorted perovskite structure of NdNiO 3 in the insulating phase. (b) The structure in the metallic phase. The changes in octahedral tilts drive the transition. 7 (c) Temperature-dependent resistance capturing the MIT (see SI). TMIT is 91 K during cooling and 124 K during heating. The film is 57.5 nm (150 unit cells) thick in the (001) PC direction, grown on LaAlO 3 (100) PC .We explore thermal and electronic transport through complementary techniques of FDTR 4and FDPR on the same sample. As illustrated in Figure 2a, to isolate the thermal response of the film, we perform FDTR measurements for a region coated with a gold transducer layer (Figure S2, S3), which immediately converts electronic excitations into heat and ensures that the measured change in reflectance ∆ R(ω) is based only on the thermal properties of the sample (see SI). 19,20 To measure charge transport, we perform FDPR measurements on an adjacent uncoated region of the same sample; the photoreflectance signal includes contributions from heat diffusion and charge transport. We then determine the ambipolar carrier diffusivity across the transition. In FDTR, the thermoreflectance signal is proportional to the change in the surface tem-perature of the gold transducer. The relative phase between the oscillations of the ther-moreflectance signal and the pump modulation exhibits a distinct frequency dependence in the metallic phase compared to the insulating phase (Figure 2b). According to the sen-sitivity analysis based on the Fourier heat conduction model, our FDTR measurement is exclusively sensitive to the out-of-plane thermal conductivity κ⊥ (Figure 2d). At high mod-ulation frequencies, the phase shifts toward zero with increasing κ⊥, while at low modulation frequencies, it shifts to more negative values with increasing κ⊥ (Figure 2b). This relation-ship suggests that the out-of-plane thermal conductivity of the metallic phase is higher than that of the insulating phase, as expected. In FDPR, the photoreflectance from the bare sample is the sum of the carrier-induced and temperature-induced components, both of which are represented by complex numbers. As shown in Figure 2c, at higher modulation frequencies, the carrier contribution can lower the overall phase lag compared with the temperature contribution alone, as carrier diffusion typically occurs much faster than heat diffusion. The different phase curves in the metallic and insulating states, especially at high modulation frequencies, are closely related to the difference in the carrier part of the signal. From the sensitivity analysis in Figure 2e, we observe that the constant Aρ that determines the magnitude of the carrier contribution to the signal, the carrier recombination time τ , and ambipolar diffusivity Da are correlated, 5Figure 2: (a) Schematic of an integrated frequency-domain thermoreflectance (FDTR) and frequency-domain photoreflectance (FDPR) measurement setup. A continuous wave (CW) pump laser at 458 nm, power-modulated at a frequency ω/ 2π, excites the sample. A CW probe laser at 532 nm reads out the perturbed reflectance. Both laser beams are focused to a 3 μm beam waist radius. The reference and reflected beams are first balanced and then detected by a balanced detector. The change in reflectance ∆ R(ω) is extracted from the output signal by a lock-in amplifier. FDTR and FDPR measurements are performed at the gold-coated (65.7 nm) and bare regions of the sample, respectively, with a piezoelectric stage being used to translate the sample in the xy-plane and to locate the beam focus along the z-axis. (b) FDTR phase data (circles) in the metallic (123.4 K) and insulating (110.0 K) phases, along with best fits using the Fourier heat conduction model (lines). (c) FDPR data in the metallic (133.0 K) and insulating (106.2 K) phases, along with best fits using the carrier and temperature model (solid lines); the phases of the temperature part of the signal are plotted in dashed lines. (d, e) Sensitivity analysis for FDTR (d) and FDPR (e) data fitting at 110.0 and 133.3 K, respectively. Specifically, κ∥ and κ⊥ correspond to the in-plane and out-of-plane thermal conductivity, respectively. GF S is the thermal boundary conductance between the NdNiO 3 film and the LaAlO 3. Aρ is related to the magnitude of the carrier contribution to the signal, τ is the carrier recombination time, and Da is the ambipolar diffusivity. The phase difference is defined as the change in phase resulting from a + 1% relative increase in the corresponding variable. allowing us to fit only one of these three parameters reliably. Given that Da is substantially more susceptible to changes in transport than both Aρ and τ , we fix the values of Aρ and 

τ and treat Da along with the thermal boundary conduction between the thin film and substrate, GF S , as fitting variables (see Figure S7, S8). 6Analyzing FDTR and FDPR data to extract transport properties of the thin film requires knowledge of the substrate properties. Therefore, we characterized the thermal properties of the LaAlO 3 substrate independently. We performed FDTR measurements on a LaAlO 3

substrate coated with a transducer layer (Figure S14, S15) and measured its thermal conduc-tivity and heat capacity over the temperature range of 80–140 K (Figure 3a). The measured substrate heat capacity and thermal conductivity (Figure 3a) agree well with literature values for the heat capacity and thermal conductivity of LaAlO 3.28 Notably, our approach enables the simultaneous determination of both thermal conductivity and heat capacity from a single measurement (Figure S13). This is achieved by varying the modulation frequency over a wide range: at higher frequencies, the thermoreflectance’s phase has a positive correlation with both thermal conductivity and heat capacity, while at lower frequencies, its dependences on thermal conductivity and heat capacity have opposite signs. We then fix the substrate thermal conductivity and heat capacity in our heat conduction model and determine the out-of-plane thermal conductivity ( κ⊥,tot ) of the NdNiO 3 thin film. We perform heating and cooling measurements between 80–140 K. Simultaneously fitting both κ and Cp for the film is challenging because of the high uncertainty and because these parameters are strongly correlated. Therefore, we fix the film’s heat capacity using a Debye model derived from bulk heat capacity measurements on NdNiO 3 (see Figure S16). 25,29 

With only the film’s thermal conductivity as a free parameter, we achieve stable fits with uncertainty < 18%. Figure 3b shows the thermal conductivity κ of the thin film NdNiO 3

during cooling and heating cycles. During cooling, the thermal conductivity κ⊥,tot of NdNiO 3 gradually decreases between 133.3 and 123.3 K. Between 123.3 and 110.0 K, it decreases more sharply by 33%, a phe-nomenon we describe as thermal switching. We compare the out-of-plane thermal conduc-tivity to the predicted electronic contribution to the in-plane thermal conductivity using the Wiedemann–Franz law. It is important to recognize that the Wiedemann–Franz law can fail in correlated oxides, 30,31 where non-Fermi-liquid transport might emerge. 32 Consequently, we 7regard the predicted electronic thermal conductivity as a comparative indicator of in-plane heat transport. We calculate κ∥,el = LσT , where L is the Lorenz number, σ is the separately measured in-plane electrical conductivity (Figure 1a) and T is the temperature. In principle, we expect no anisotropy in the properties of bulk NdNiO 3, so we attribute the differences in thermal conductivity to finite scaling in the thin film limit. On cooling, we observe the onset of thermal switching in κ⊥,tot more than 20 K higher in temperature than in κ|| ,el . The heating curve of κ⊥,tot closely matches the cooling curve across the transition, suggesting that this transition temperature anisotropy arises from weak hysteresis in the out-of-plane direction. The hysteresis remains weak across different pump laser powers, eliminating the possibility that the laser reduces the hysteresis (Figure S9), and we can also rule out a photoinduced transition (Figure S11). Consistent with this behav-ior, the out-of-plane ambipolar diffusivity during heating and cooling from FDPR decreases sharply from 120 to 110 K and changes by much smaller amounts for T < 110 K (Figure 3c), which reinforces the idea that an electronic phase transition occurs at Tswitch . The DC con-tribution of the reflectance from the bare sample, related to the dielectric constants of the thin film, also shows a sharp discontinuity at around 115 K, providing additional evidence for the electronic phase transition occurring near Tswitch (Figure S12). Together, these mea-surements show that the transition temperature and the associated hysteresis measured in the out-of-plane direction differ substantially from those observed in the in-plane direction. Both epitaxial strain and film thickness can tune the MIT in NdNiO 3, so we first consider whether differing strains in the out-of-plane direction can lead to anisotropic hysteresis. We expect that the film is under compressive strain in the in-plane direction due to the substrate, and therefore, it is under tensile strain in the out-of-plane direction. 33 While bulk NdNiO 3

has a hysteresis loop width of ∼4 K, 27 both compressive and tensile strain on thin films increase the hysteresis loop width to > 10 K. 34 We therefore expect hysteresis in the in-plane and out-of-plane directions, and anisotropic strain effects should not eliminate hysteresis in the out-of-plane direction. To understand the origin of the discrepancy, we then consider 8Figure 3: (a) The thermal conductivity and heat capacity of the substrate LaAlO 3 measured using FDTR. (b) Out-of-plane thermal conductivity, κ⊥,tot , of thin film NdNiO 3 as a function of temperature, measured using FDTR over three cooling and two heating cycles (see Fig-ure S5 for the full data and Table S1 for numerical values). The electronic contribution to in-plane thermal conductivity, κ∥,el predicted using the Wiedemann–Franz law is plotted as dashed lines. The hysteresis is weaker in the out-of-plane direction than in the in-plane direction, highlighting the anisotropy of the thin-film geometry. A modified logistic func-tion, f (T ) = a 1 + e−b(T −Tswitch )−1 + c, is used to fit the thermal conductivity trend (gray line). The thermal switching temperature Tswitch is found to be 115 K. (c) The ambipolar diffusivity of NdNiO 3, measured using FDPR, across the metal–insulator transitions during cooling and heating. The dashed line corresponds to Tswitch = 115 ± 4 K, with the standard deviation obtained from a bootstrap analysis (Figure S6). Fixed parameters Aρ = 8 × 10 −25 

m3 K and τ = 0.11 ns are chosen to minimize fitting residuals across all temperatures. the length scale of the FDTR and FDPR measurements compared to electrical resistivity measurements, understanding the dimensionality of the transition in the thin-film limit. Previous imaging and local transport studies of the NdNiO 3 metal-insulator transition (MIT) show that the transition proceeds through mesoscale phase coexistence with insu-lating and metallic domains whose lateral size and morphology evolve strongly with tem-perature. Epitaxial strain has a strong influence on both the transition temperature and hysteresis width, so quantitative transition temperatures reported in the literature vary sig-nificantly between samples. In some epitaxial films, insulating domains form stripe-like patterns aligned with the substrate terracing, while in others such striping is not appar-ent. In the striped case, insulating domains are typically ∼200 nm wide and can extend much longer along the terrace direction, 10 whereas in nonstriped films the domains appear 9more irregular but retain a comparable characteristic lateral length scale. 9,35 Upon cooling through the MIT, isolated insulating domains nucleate at temperatures slightly above the nominal transition. As temperature decreases further, these insulating regions expand and connect with neighboring domains, progressively reducing the connectivity of the metallic network. 9,35 This loss of metallic connectivity drives the sharp increase in the resistivity observed on cooling. In films that exhibit stripe ordering, the insulating domain coverage increases with decreasing temperature and saturates at roughly 60%, while the striped mor-phology remains visible; metallic domains persist, but their lateral connectivity is strongly suppressed. 10 Upon heating, the evolution is different: insulating domains tend to melt from their edges and pinch off into smaller, disconnected regions, producing a domain distribution that is qualitatively distinct from that observed during cooling, even at the same insulat-ing fraction. Because electrical transport depends on domain connectivity rather than phase fraction alone, this asymmetry in domain morphology and connectivity gives rise to observed macroscopic transport hysteresis. The exact domain morphology in our films across the transition is not known, but we can estimate the length scale at which domains affect thermal and electrical transport. During heating, the effective metallic transport domains in the coexistence regime are typ-ically 100–300 nm in size, as inferred from conductive atomic force microscopy (AFM) and related measurements. 9 Consistent with this scale, nanogap transport experiments report pronounced deviations from bulk hysteresis behavior for gap sizes in the range of ∼40–150 nm, where resistance drops abruptly when a single metallic domain bridges the contacts. 11 

These characteristic length scales are comparable to our film thickness (57.5 nm), suggesting that out-of-plane transport in thin films is governed by the formation of vertically continuous metallic paths rather than by in-plane percolation (Figure 4b). Consequently, out-of-plane transport is not as susceptible to domain connectivity, which changes the hysteresis. The FDTR/FDPR measurements probe reflectance over a spot size of ∼3μm. At these length scales, the measurement aggregates over hundreds of lateral domains within the coexistence 10 regime (Figure 4a). As a result, abrupt resistivity or conductivity changes associated with the nucleation or percolation of individual metallic domains in the out-of-plane direction are averaged out, creating a smooth change in thermal and electrical transport without hysteresis. This phenomenon is further corroborated by another measurement on a 20.6 nm thick NdNiO 3 film on LaAlO 3, also synthesized with MBE (Figure S10). This thinner film demon-strates a similar lack of hysteresis in the out-of-plane thermal conductivity. Figure 4c shows phase lag data and the best fits for metallic and insulating states. The sensitivity analysis (Figure 4d) shows that FDTR is less sensitive to this sample’s out-of-plane thermal con-ductivity, κ⊥, than to that of the 57.5 nm sample, as the 20.6 nm film has a lower thermal resistance. Still, we observe no hysteresis in the out-of-plane thermal conductivity measure-ments(Figure 4e). This result matches that of the 57.5 nm film, again suggesting a lack of percolation in the out-of-plane direction. We can therefore conclude that the anisotropy in the hysteresis is common to NdNiO 3 films of similar thicknesses to the 57.5 nm sample. FDTR and FDPR in a thin-film geometry are uniquely sensitive to domain emergence in a phase transition, capturing the early onset of localized phase separation that precedes changes in the macroscopic properties. Although the diffraction limit prevents us from directly resolving the thermal conductivity of a single domain or right at the interface, our approach uniquely provides access to the cross-plane thermal conductivity, which, when combined with the mapped domain structures reported in previous studies, 10,26,35,36 allows us to understand how domains govern transport properties. Our study reveals a microscopic, domain-mediated phase transition in NdNiO 3 preceding the MIT transition observed via bulk transport measurement. Thermal switching occurs at a temperature significantly above the metal–insulator transition identified by in-plane electrical transport measurements, with significantly reduced hysteresis. The thin-film geometry plays a significant role in the reduced hysteresis as the length scale of the domains formed during the transition is larger than the film thickness, allowing us to reduce percolation across 11 Figure 4: (a) Qualitative (not to scale) schematic representing the formation of insulat-ing domains in NdNiO 3 near the phase transition temperature. FDPR probes out-of-plane electron transport on a length scale covering several domains, whereas the electrical resis-tance measurement aggregates in-plane contributions from electrons percolating across on the order of 10 3 domains. (b) Cross-sectional view of the beam penetration and domain formation (not to scale). Domains form instantaneously across the film thickness, directly creating single-phase transport channels without metal–insulator interfaces; hence, out-of-plane thermal and electron transport exhibits low hysteresis. (c) Phase lag data as a function of modulation frequency for the metallic (red) and insulating (blue) phases, together with best-fit model curves, for the 20.6 nm sample. (d) Sensitivity analysis for phase lag best fits at 133 K. A 1% increase in thermal conductivity produces negligible changes for the in-plane component. As with the 57.5 nm sample, the sensitivity to the in-plane thermal conductivity is nearly zero, while the sensitivity to the out-of-plane thermal conductivity is reduced. This reduction arises from the decreased film thickness and the correspondingly lower thermal resistance. (e) Out-of-plane thermal conductivity as a function of tempera-ture, extracted from best-fit phase lag curves. Wiedemann–Franz law predictions for the electron contribution to in-plane thermal conductivity are overlaid (dashed lines). Minimal hysteresis is again observed in the out-of-plane thermal conductivity between the cooling and heating measurements, consistent with the 57.5 nm film. domains in the out-of-plane direction. While much research on NdNiO 3 has been dedicated to tuning the hysteresis and transition temperature of the MIT, the anisotropy of the thin-12 film geometry has yet to be addressed and presents another way to tune the properties of the MIT. These results position NdNiO 3 thin films within a growing class of correlated oxides that exhibit nontrivial transport behavior across electronic phase transitions. Violations of the Wiedemann–Franz law observed in VO 2 nanowires near the MIT 31 suggest the involvement of unconventional quasiparticles or other strongly correlated transport phenomena. 37 The unusual behavior of the reduced dimensionality in VO 2 nanowires highlights the macroscopic effects of fundamental length scales in correlated oxides with phase transitions. Our findings open new avenues for exploring the role of geometrical confinement and domain structure in such materials, advancing NdNiO 3 thin films as compelling candidates for realizing passive thermal switches and nonvolatile memristors. Our work demonstrates that FDTR and FDPR offer unique capabilities for probing phase transitions in thin films where the domain sizes exceed the film thickness. In contrast to bulk resistivity, which probes in-plane transport percolating across many domains, our reflectance-based measurements are more sensitive to the local emergence and distribution of metallic and insulating domains. FDTR measurements in ultrathin films, therefore, primarily average transport across single domains, minimizing percolative effects and hysteresis. The sharp features observed in both thermal transport and ambipolar diffusivity near Tswitch with weak hysteresis confirm the differences in the measurement due to the geometry of FDTR and FDPR. These insights demonstrate that FDTR is a powerful probe of phase transitions in complex oxides, enabling access to out-of-plane transport properties in regimes inaccessible to traditional bulk methods. Beyond this central result, we introduce several methodological advances. We demon-strate that FDTR can simultaneously measure the thermal conductivity and heat capacity of a bulk substrate material (in this case, LaAlO 3) across a wide temperature range. We also report the first use of FDPR to extract ambipolar carrier diffusivity in a thin film sys-tem. The observed drop in Da across the same temperature range as the thermal transition confirms the coevolution of electronic and thermal transport across the MIT. This combined 13 FDTR/FDPR framework opens avenues for studying nanoscale phase transitions, domain dynamics, and anisotropic transport in complex oxides, both in equilibrium and under ex-ternal stimuli such as strain or electric fields. 

# Acknowledgement 

The authors thank Aaron J. Schmidt for helpful discussions. L.S.N. thanks Suzanne Smith and Jennifer Hoffman for their feedback on the manuscript. This project was primarily supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Sciences and Engineering, under Award No. DE-SC0021925. We also acknowl-edge support from the National Science Foundation with award DMR-2323970. This work was performed in part at the Harvard University Center for Nanoscale Systems (CNS); a member of the National Nanotechnology Coordinated Infrastructure Network (NNCI), which is supported by the National Science Foundation under NSF award no. ECCS-2025158. Q.S., L.S.N., and A.R. acknowledge support from the Harvard Quantum Initiative. A.Y.J., G.A.P., and D.F.S. acknowledge support from the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Grant DGE-1745303. A.Y.J. and G.A.P. were also supported by the Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans, and A.Y.J. by the Ford Foundation. J.A.M. acknowledges funding from the Star Friedman Fund at Harvard University. L.S.N. and A.R. acknowledge support from the Herchel Smith Undergraduate Science Research Program. Generative A.I. was used in the code to create plots for the figures. 

# Supporting Information Available 

X-ray diffraction and X-ray reflectivity of NdNiO 3; X-ray reflectivity of the transducer layer; AFM of NdNiO 3; full derivation of the carrier and temperature model for FDPR signals, and data analysis. 14 References 

(1) Wen, C.; Feng, L.; Li, Z.; Bai, J.; Wang, S.; Gao, X.; Wang, J.; Yao, W. A review of the preparation, properties and applications of VO 2 thin films with the reversible phase transition. Frontiers in Materials 2024 , 11 , 1341518. (2) Haddad, E.; Kruzelecky, R. V.; Murzionak, P.; Jamroz, W.; Tagziria, K.; Chaker, M.; Ledrogoff, B. Review of the VO 2 smart material applications with emphasis on its use for spacecraft thermal control. Frontiers in Materials 2022 , 9, 1013848. (3) Xia, Q.; Yang, J. J. Memristive crossbar arrays for brain-inspired computing. Nature Materials 2019 , 18 , 309–323. (4) Imada, M.; Fujimori, A.; Tokura, Y. Metal-insulator transitions. Reviews of Modern Physics 1998 , 70 , 1039–1263. (5) Catalano, S.; Gibert, M.; Fowlie, J.; ´I˜ niguez, J.; Triscone, J.-M.; Kreisel, J. Rare-earth nickelates RNiO 3: thin films and heterostructures. Reports on Progress in Physics 2018 ,

81 , 046501, Publisher: IOP Publishing. (6) Alonso, J. A.; Mart´ ınez-Lope, M. J.; Casais, M. T.; Garc´ ıa-Mu˜ noz, J. L.; Fern´ andez-D´ ıaz, M. T. Room-temperature monoclinic distortion due to charge disproportionation in RNiO 3 perovskites with small rare-earth cations (R = Ho, Y, Er, Tm, Yb, and Lu): A neutron diffraction study. Physical Review B 2000 , 61 , 1756–1763. (7) Garc´ ıa-Mu˜ noz, J. L.; Aranda, M. A. G.; Alonso, J. A.; Mart´ ınez-Lope, M. J. Structure and charge order in the antiferromagnetic band-insulating phase of NdNiO 3. Physical Review B 2009 , 79 , 134432. (8) Liu, J.; Kargarian, M.; Kareev, M.; Gray, B.; Ryan, P. J.; Cruz, A.; Tahir, N.; Chuang, Y.-D.; Guo, J.; Rondinelli, J. M.; Freeland, J. W.; Fiete, G. A.; Chakhalian, J. 15 Heterointerface engineered electronic and magnetic phases of NdNiO 3 thin films. Nature Communications 2013 , 4, 2714. (9) Preziosi, D.; Lopez-Mir, L.; Li, X.; Cornelissen, T.; Lee, J. H.; Trier, F.; Bouze-houane, K.; Valencia, S.; Gloter, A.; Barth´ el´ emy, A.; Bibes, M. Direct mapping of phase separation across the metal–insulator transition of NdNiO 3. Nano Letters 2018 ,

18 , 2226–2232. (10) Mattoni, G.; Zubko, P.; Maccherozzi, F.; van der Torren, A.; Boltje, D. B.; Had-jimichael, M.; Manca, N.; Catalano, S.; Gibert, M.; Liu, Y.; Aarts, J.; Triscone, J.-M.; Dhesi, S. S.; Caviglia, A. D. Striped nanoscale phase separation at the metal–insulator transition of heteroepitaxial nickelates. Nature Communications 2016 , 7, 13141. (11) Lee, J. H.; Trier, F.; Cornelissen, T.; Preziosi, D.; Bouzehouane, K.; Fusil, S.; Valen-cia, S.; Bibes, M. Imaging and Harnessing Percolation at the Metal–Insulator Transition of NdNiO 3 Nanogaps. Nano Letters 2019 , 19 , 7801–7805, Publisher: American Chem-ical Society. (12) Zhang, J. Y.; Kim, H.; Mikheev, E.; Hauser, A. J.; Stemmer, S. Key role of lattice symmetry in the metal-insulator transition of NdNiO 3 films. Scientific Reports 2016 ,

6, 23652. (13) Laffez, P.; Lebedev, O. I.; Ruello, P.; Desfeux, R.; Banerjee, G.; Capon, F. Evidence of strain induced structural change in hetero-epitaxial NdNiO 3 thin films with metal-insulator transition. The European Physical Journal Applied Physics 2004 , 25 , 25–31. (14) Wang, L.; Dash, S.; Chang, L.; You, L.; Feng, Y.; He, X.; Jin, K.-j.; Zhou, Y.; Ong, H. G.; Ren, P.; Wang, S.; Chen, L.; Wang, J. Oxygen Vacancy Induced Room-Temperature Metal–Insulator Transition in Nickelate Films and Its Potential Applica-tion in Photovoltaics. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2016 , 8, 9769–9776, PMID: 27025257. 16 (15) Shi, Y.; Chen, L.-Q. Thermodynamics of strain engineering in RNiO 3 (R = Sm , Nd). 

Physical Review B 2024 , 110 , 205117. (16) Grissonnanche, G.; Pan, G. A.; LaBollita, H.; Segedin, D. F.; Song, Q.; Paik, H.; Brooks, C. M.; Beauchesne-Blanchet, E.; Santana Gonz´ alez, J. L.; Botana, A. S.; Mundy, J. A.; Ramshaw, B. J. Electronic band structure of a superconducting nickelate probed by the Seebeck coefficient in the disordered limit. Physical Review X 2024 , 14 ,041021. (17) Cahill, D. G. Thermal conductivity measurement from 30 to 750 K: the 3 ω method. 

Review of Scientific Instruments 1990 , 61 , 802–808. (18) Oh, D.-W.; Ko, C.; Ramanathan, S.; Cahill, D. G. Thermal conductivity and dynamic heat capacity across the metal-insulator transition in thin film VO 2. Applied Physics Letters 2010 , 96 , 151906. (19) Yang, J.; Maragliano, C.; Schmidt, A. J. Thermal property microscopy with frequency domain thermoreflectance. Review of Scientific Instruments 2013 , 84 , 104904. (20) Schmidt, A. J.; Cheaito, R.; Chiesa, M. A frequency-domain thermoreflectance method for the characterization of thermal properties. Review of Scientific Instruments 2009 ,

80 , 094901. (21) Imaging thermal transport in graphene. (22) Akura, Y.; Ikeda, Y.; Matsunaga, Y.; Shimofuri, M.; Banerjee, A.; Tsuchiya, T.; Hi-rotani, J. Frequency-domain thermoreflectance with beam offset without the spot dis-tortion for accurate thermal conductivity measurement of anisotropic materials. Review of Scientific Instruments 2025 , 96 , 014902. (23) Song, Q.; Warkander, S.; Huberman, S. C. Probing carrier and phonon transport in 17 semiconductors all at once through frequency-domain photoreflectance. Physical Review Applied 2024 , 21 , 034044. (24) Gonzalez-Munoz, S.; Agarwal, K.; Castanon, E. G.; Kudrynskyi, Z. R.; Kova-lyuk, Z. D.; Spi` ece, J.; Kazakova, O.; Patan` e, A.; Kolosov, O. V. Direct Measurements of Anisotropic Thermal Transport in γ-InSe Nanolayers via Cross-Sectional Scanning Thermal Microscopy. Advanced Materials Interfaces 2023 , 10 , 2300081. (25) Hooda, M.; Yadav, C. Electronic properties and the nature of metal–insulator transition in NdNiO 3 prepared at ambient oxygen pressure. Physica B: Condensed Matter 2016 ,

491 , 31–36. (26) Gomes, M. M.; Manjunath, B.; Vilarinho, R.; Bassou, A. A.; Silva, B.; Oliveira, J.; C¸ aha, I.; Deepak, F. L.; Almeida, B.; Almeida, A.; Kreisel, J.; Tavares, P. B.; ´I˜ niguez, J.; Moreira, J. A. Structural percolation evolution throughout the metal-to-insulator tran-sition in NdNiO 3. Phys. Rev. B 2024 , 109 , 224109. (27) Catalan, G.; Bowman, R. M.; Gregg, J. M. Metal-insulator transitions in NdNiO 3 thin films. Physical Review B 2000 , 62 , 7892–7900. (28) Schnelle, W.; Fischer, R.; Gmelin, E. Specific heat capacity and thermal conductivity of NdGaO 3 and LaAlO 3 single crystals at low temperatures. Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics 2001 , 34 , 846–851. (29) Barbeta, V. B.; Jardim, R. F.; Torikachvili, M. S.; Escote, M. T.; Cordero, F.; Pontes, F. M.; Trequattrini, F. Metal-insulator transition in Nd 1-x Eu xNiO 3 probed by specific heat and anelastic measurements. Journal of Applied Physics 2011 , 109 ,07E115. (30) Ronning, F.; Hill, R. W.; Sutherland, M.; Hawthorn, D. G.; Tanatar, M. A.; Paglione, J.; Taillefer, L.; Graf, M. J.; Perry, R. S.; Maeno, Y.; Mackenzie, A. P. 18 Thermal Conductivity in the Vicinity of the Quantum Critical End Point in Sr 3Ru 2O7.

Phys. Rev. Lett. 2006 , 97 , 067005. (31) Lee, S.; Hippalgaonkar, K.; Yang, F.; Hong, J.; Ko, C.; Suh, J.; Liu, K.; Wang, K.; Urban, J. J.; Zhang, X.; Dames, C.; Hartnoll, S. A.; Delaire, O.; Wu, J. Anomalously low electronic thermal conductivity in metallic vanadium dioxide. Science 2017 , 355 ,371–374. (32) Mahajan, R.; Barkeshli, M.; Hartnoll, S. A. Non-Fermi liquids and the Wiedemann-Franz law. Phys. Rev. B 2013 , 88 , 125107. (33) Wang, L.; Ju, S.; You, L.; Qi, Y.; Guo, Y.-w.; Ren, P.; Zhou, Y.; Wang, J. Competition between strain and dimensionality effects on the electronic phase transitions in NdNiO 3

films. Scientific Reports 2015 , 5, 18707. (34) Scherwitzl, R.; Zubko, P.; Lezama, I. G.; Ono, S.; Morpurgo, A. F.; Catalan, G.; Triscone, J. Electric-Field Control of the Metal-Insulator Transition in Ultrathin NdNiO 3 Films. Advanced Materials 2010 , 22 , 5517–5520. (35) Bisht, R. S.; Samanta, S.; Raychaudhuri, A. K. Phase coexistence near the metal–insulator transition in a compressively strained NdNiO 3 film grown on LaAlO 3:Scanning tunneling, noise, and impedance spectroscopy studies. Physical Review B 

2017 , 95 , 115147. (36) Li, J.; Pelliciari, J.; Mazzoli, C.; Catalano, S.; Simmons, F.; Sadowski, J. T.; Levitan, A.; Gibert, M.; Carlson, E.; Triscone, J.-M.; Wilkins, S.; Comin, R. Scale-invariant mag-netic textures in the strongly correlated oxide NdNiO 3. Nature Communications 2019 ,

10 , 4568, Publisher: Nature Publishing Group. (37) Zhang, J.; Levenson-Falk, E. M.; Ramshaw, B. J.; Bonn, D. A.; Liang, R.; Hardy, W. N.; Hartnoll, S. A.; Kapitulnik, A. Anomalous thermal diffusivity in un-19 derdoped YBa 2Cu 3O6+x . Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2017 , 114 ,5378–5383. 20 TOC Graphic 

> 21

# Supporting Information: Observation of microscopic domain effects in the metal-insulator transition of thin-film NdNiO 3

## Lucy S. Nathwani ,† Anne Ruperto, † Ashvini Vallipuram, † Abigail Y. Jiang, ‡,†

## Grace A. Pan ,† Dan Ferenc Segedin ,† Ari B. Turkiewicz, † Charles M. Brooks, † Jarad A. Mason ,∗,¶ Qichen Song ,∗,¶ and Julia A. Mundy ∗,†,‡

†Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

‡John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

¶Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, 02138 

E-mail: mason@chemistry.harvard.edu; qichensong@g.harvard.edu; mundy@fas.harvard.edu 

1Methods 

## Sample Preparation 

Thin-film NdNiO 3 was synthesized on LaAlO 3 (100) using ozone-assisted molecular-beam epitaxy (MBE). S1 LaAlO 3 has a smaller lattice mismatch than other possible substrates, enabling the thickest film without relaxation. During the deposition, the substrate tem-perature was kept at 555 ◦C and the chamber pressure was maintained at ∼ 1.3 × 10 −6

torr distilled ozone (Heeg Vacuum Engineering). We expect biaxial compressive strain of 0.4%. The unit cell volume change across the transition is negligible. In-situ reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED), X-ray diffraction, and X-ray reflectivity measurements (PANalytical Empyrean X-Ray Diffractometer) demonstrate a highly crystalline, epitaxially strained sample with a smooth surface, with measured thickness 57.5 nm, approximately 150 unit cells (see Fig. S1, S2). Fig. S10 details the synthesis and characterization of the 20.6 nm sample. We measured the sample resistance (Fig. 1) via a standard 4-probe AC resistance measurement in a physical property measurement system (PPMS). To determine the thermal properties of the substrate, we coated a sample of LaAlO 3

(Shinkosha) with a transducer layer. We deposited 56 nm Au with a 2.6 nm Cr adhesion layer and confirmed the thickness using x-ray reflectivity (PANalytical Empyrean X-Ray Diffrac-tometer). We found that the Cr adhesion layer in the LaAlO 3 sample created nonequilibrium electron-phonon coupling in the transducer layer and increased the phase lag for modulation frequencies above 10 MHz; S2 this effect is beyond the scope of our model. We still obtained accurate thermal parameters from lower modulation frequencies in the LaAlO 3 sample, as the measurement of the substrate properties was sensitive to the phase at lower modulation frequencies (see Fig. S14, S13). We performed FDTR and FDPR measurements on the same sample of NdNiO 3 by coating half of the sample with a transducer layer. We deposited a transducer layer over a small region of the sample’s surface, leaving much of the sample uncovered (see Fig. 2a). For the 1NdNiO 3 sample, we deposited 65.7 nm Au with a 1.8 nm Ti adhesion layer using electron-beam evaporation (Denton E-beam Evaporator). We confirmed the thickness with X-ray reflectivity as above. Based on the results from the substrate FDTR, we chose to use a Ti adhesion layer for the NdNiO 3 to eliminate transducer electron-phonon coupling. We could then model the phase at higher modulation frequencies where it is sensitive to the film’s properties, as shown in Fig. 2c. The transducer we deposited on the NdNiO 3 film had a roughness of 14.16 ˚ A(Fig. S3). These transducer layers were straightforward to model for our desired modulation frequencies, as gold is frequently used for FDTR, and its thin film thermal conductivity and heat capacity are known. S3 The gold coating thermal conductivity was independently measured using the 4-point probe method (Fig. S15). 

## FDTR and FDPR 

We use the FDTR and FDPR setup supplied by Fourier Scientific. To change the pump frequency, we modulate the voltage of a 458 nm 20 mW pump laser (Coherent OBIS LX fiber laser) and sweep the modulation frequency. The incident pump power is measured to be 17.3 mW. We measured the thermal conductivity at lower pump powers (Fig. S9) and found similar values, and the lack of hysteresis persists. We also eliminate the possibility of a photo-induced MIT (Fig S11). We record the amplitude and phase of ∆ R(ω) using a 532 nm 15 mW continuous-wave probe laser (Coherent OBIS LS laser) and a lock-in amplifier (Zurich Instruments HF2LI). Both the pump and probe beams are nearly isotropic with Gaussian spatial profiles; the 1 /e 2 radius of the probe beam is 2.98 μm. To minimize the noise in the probe signal, we rotate a half-wave plate in the probe beam path before it reaches the sample, which minimizes the difference in the intensity of the reference and reflected probe beams. Before we make a measurement, we measure the phase of the pump beam to subtract it from the measured phase. When measuring, we send the probe beams before and after reflection from the sample to a balanced photodetector. After sending the signal from the balanced detector 2to the lock-in amplifier, S4 we obtain ∆ R(ω) for a range of frequencies ω. We controlled the temperature using a flow cryostat (Instec HCP421V). For substrate measurements using FDTR, we choose Cp and κz as the fitting variables in the fitting analysis. For thin-film measurements, we choose κ⊥ as the fitting variable for FDTR, and Da and GF S for FDPR. Specifically, we used the temperature-dependent 

κ⊥ obtained from FDTR as an input parameter used in the FDPR modeling. To extract the fitting variables of interest, we fit the phase of ∆ R(ω) using a nonlinear least-squares optimization to minimize the difference between the measured phase of ∆ R(ω) and the model prediction. Further details of the FDPR modeling formalism, along with additional parameters used in both FDTR and FDPR modeling, can be found below. 

# Characterization of NdNiO 3 Film 

## Film Measurements 

We measured the thickness and roughness of the film in situ and after the film growth. We used reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) to characterize the film in situ .Figure S1 shows the diffraction pattern of the film during growth in the (100) and (110) orientations. The pattern reveals a smooth, epitaxial film. Figure S2a shows the film’s X-ray diffraction pattern, taken after growth. The peaks are consistent with epitaxial NdNiO 3

in the (001) orientation. The best fit for the X-ray reflectivity curve (Fig. S2b) shows the film to be 57.5 nm thick with a roughness of 6.5 ˚ A. We examine the surface with atomic force microscopy (AFM), Fig. S3a. Terracing from the substrate miscut and some defects in the surface are visible. We measured bulk electrical transport (Fig. 1) on a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurements System (PPMS) by applying 0.01 mA AC at 18.31 Hz via wire-bonded contacts . 3Figure S1: Reflection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) of NdNiO 3 on LaAlO 3 dur-ing MBE growth. Patterns recorded in the a, (110) orientation and b, (100) orientation. 

## Coating Measurements 

The X-ray reflectivity (Fig. S2c) and AFM (Fig. S2b) of the gold-coated surface are also shown. The best fit for the X-ray reflectivity showed the coating to be 65.7 nm of gold and 1.8 nm of titanium, with a surface roughness of 14.16 ˚ A(Fig. S2,S3). AFM confirms that the terracing is still visible, but the surface is slightly rougher overall, and there are still defects. 4Figure S2: a, X-ray diffraction of 57.5 nm film showing epitaxial NdNiO 3 (001) PC peaks. The asterisks denote LaAlO 3 (100) substrate peaks. b, X-ray reflectivity of the 57.5 nm film after growth with the best fit overlaid. c, The X-ray reflectivity of the Au/Ti coating on the 57.5 nm film, with the best fit curve overlaid. The bump after the oscillations is due to the silicon sample holder. 5Figure S3: a, AFM characterization of 57.5 nm thick NdNiO 3 film showing defects (bright spots) along with terracing due to the substrate miscut (vertical striping). b, AFM charac-terization of the NdNiO 3 film after being coated. The film is slightly rougher overall, but the terracing is still visible, and there are still surface defects. 6Mapping FDPR Phase Fluctuations 

Spatial FDPR mapping further reveals potential indications of phase coexistence near the transition, reinforcing a picture of spatially inhomogeneous, domain-driven phase evolu-tion. S5–S8 We measured spatial FDPR maps at room temperature (Fig. S4a), at Tswitch on cooling (Fig. S4b) and on heating (Fig. S4c). At Tswitch , we observe longer length scale phase fluctuations that persist through a range of modulation frequencies and are present on both cooling and heating. We also recorded an FDPR phase map using a smaller beam size on the same sample at room temperature to measure the length scale of its fluctuations. We observe featureless, noise-induced fluctuations on a much smaller length scale at room temperature. 7Figure S4: a, Room-temperature map of phase lag at a modulation frequency of 4 .4 × 10 6

Hz, collected at 20 × magnification, and the effective beam radius is approximately 1.5 μm. While we can record phase lag at room temperature with this smaller beam spot, its increased vibration sensitivity makes a 10x objective a better choice at lower temperatures under vacuum. b, Map of phase lag at 1 .4 × 10 7 Hz under 10x objective. c, Map of phase lag at 2.3 × 10 6 Hz under 10x objective. The large-scale fluctuations we observe at 113 K exist over a range of intermediate modulation frequencies on both cooling and heating, and they do not exist at any frequency in the room temperature map. 8Thermal Conductivity Data during Temperature Cy-cling 

The data in Fig. 3b were collected over 3 cycles for cooling and 2 cycles for heating and averaged. The data without averaging is shown in Fig. S5. 

Figure S5: The thermal conductivity during heating and cooling cycles. The averaged values are presented in Fig. 3b. 9Bootstrap Analysis for Tswitch 

We generate 10,000 synthetic datasets, sampling each data point from a normal distribution centered at its measured thermal conductivity value with a standard deviation given by its error bar. As shown in Fig. S6, the distribution of Tswitch does not follow a perfect Gaussian function and exhibits slight asymmetry, potentially due to the slightly enlarged error bars at higher temperatures. We find the mean and standard deviation of Tswitch is 115 K and 4 K. 

Figure S6: Histogram of bootstrap-derived Tswitch values. Vertical lines mark the mean and 

±1σ interval. The switching temperature is determined to be Tswitch = 115 ± 4 K. 10 Uncertainty Analysis for Multivariate Fitting 

In processing the FDTR data with Au transducer, the heat transfer model involves the thermal boundary conductance between the metal transducer and the thin film, GTF , the thermal conductivity of the thin film, κ, and the thermal boundary conductance, GFS . The correlations between these variables prevent us from fitting them together. Here, we present the uncertainty analysis S9 for fitting κ and GTF and for fitting κ and GFS by examining the confidence intervals in the multivariate fitting in Fig. S7. Because of the anti-correlations between κ and GTF and between κ and GFS , we fix the values of both thermal boundary conductances ( GTF = GFS = 45 MW m −2 K−1) and only fit the thermal conductivity. 

Figure S7: a,b, The confidence intervals for fitting κ and GTF (a) and for fitting κ and 

GFS (b) at 110 K. The contours correspond to the cumulative distribution function of a chi-squared continuous random variable evaluated at the same Mahalanobis distance. The Mahalanobis distance is defined by D = ( X − μ)TΣ−1(X − μ), where X is the random variable, μ is the mean and Σ is the variance-covarience matrix. All non-fitting parameters are assumed to have a 3% uncertainty. The 0.63 confidence interval, equivalent to the generalized 1-σ confidence interval in the multivariate case, is marked in red. The bracket represents the mean value of the variable. We find that κ and GTF and κ and GFS are both anti-correlated, and that fitting the thermal conductivity of the thin film together with either thermal boundary conductance substantially increase the uncertainty in κ.11 In processing the FDPR phase data, we choose Da and GFS as the fitting variables. This is because the sensitivity curves for Da and GFS possess distinctive frequency dependence (i.e. they are not simple rescalings of one another) in Fig. 2. We also calculate the variance-covarience matrix and present the corresponding confidence intervals for fitting Da and GFS 

in Fig. S8. The confidence intervals reveal essentially zero correlation, further supporting our fitting strategy for the FDPR data analysis. 

Figure S8: a,b, The confidence intervals for extracting GFS and Da from FDPR data at 108 K ( a) and 133 K ( b). Both contour plots reveal minimal correlation between GFS and Da.12 Effect of Pump Power on the Microscopic Domain Effect 

Figure S9: To eliminate the possibility of the high pump power reducing the observed hys-teresis in Fig. 3b, we measured the thermal conductivity using an incident pump power of 5 mW and a probe power of 10 mW on heating and cooling. The temperature rise for this pump power is expected to be less than 6 K. We still observe little hysteresis between heating and cooling, and the thermal conductivity values are consistent with those from the higher power measurement in Fig. 3b. 

# Characterization of 20.6 nm sample 

We measure a 20.6 nm NdNiO 3 thin film on LaAlO 3 substrate grown via molecular-beam epitaxy. Four-probe resistivity measurements (Fig. S10b) show TMIT = 106 K on cooling and 

TMIT = 145 K on warming; both temperatures are slightly higher than in the original sample, and the hysteresis of 39 K is comparable to the original sample. We deposit a transducer layer of 77.8 nm Au and a 1.8 nm Ti adhesion layer via electron-beam evaporation (Denton e-beam evaporator). This procedure is consistent with that used for our original sample, expect that we used a Cr adhesion layer only on the LaAlO 3 substrate sample. We confirm the thickness of the film and the transducer layer, as well as the film’s composition, using X-13 ray reflectivity (Fig. S10c,d) and X-ray diffraction (Fig. S10a) using a PANalytical Empyrean X-Ray Diffractometer. We measure the thermal conductivity across the MIT during heating and cooling to identify any hysteresis. As in the low power measurements in Fig. S9, we measure this sample using an incident pump power of 5 mW. 14 Figure S10: Characterization of 20.6-nm NdNiO 3 thin film on LaAlO 3 substrate. a, X-ray diffraction pattern of the sample showing the pseudocubic (001) and (002) peaks. LaAlO 3

(001) PC and (002) PC peaks are marked with an asterisk (*). b, Temperature-dependent electrical resistivity showing T MIT = 106 K on cooling and 145 K on heating, yielding a hysteresis width of 39 K. c, X-ray reflectivity data on the sample (red), with the best fit for a 20.6 nm thickness overlaid (blue). d, X-ray reflectivity data (blue) for the transducer layer with the best fit (red) overlaid, corresponding to 77.8 nm of Au and 1.8 nm of Ti. 15 Refractive Index of NdNiO 3According to Ref., S10 the real part of the dielectric constant of bulk NdNiO 3 is approaching a constant value of εr = 1.7 as the photon energy ω approaches 1 eV. This value remains nearly unchanged across temperatures both below and above the metal–insulator transition tem-perature. A similar asymptotic behavior has been observed in NdNiO 3/NdGaO 3 (110). S11 

Therefore, we approximate the real part of the dielectric constant of the NdNiO 3 thin film with εr = 1.7 at photon energies of ω = 2.71 eV (pump wavelength λ = 458 nm) and ω =2.33 eV (probe wavelength λ = 532 nm). As for the imaginary part of the dielectric constant, the optical conductivity measurements on a NdNiO 3 film on a LaAlO 3 (001) substrate in Ref. S12 indicates that εi = 2.86 at ω = 2.71 eV and εi = 3.15 at ω = 2.33 eV at 298 K. Notably, the imaginary dielectric constant between 2 eV and 3 eV varies minimally across temperatures below and above the metal–insulator transition. Hence, we obtain that εi =2.86 at the pump photon energy and εi = 3.15 at the probe photon energy. Accordingly, the real and imaginary parts of the refractive index are n = 1.59, κ = 0.90 at the pump wavelength, and n = 1.59, κ = 0.97 at the probe wavelength. Consequently, the optical penetration depths for the pump and probe beams are 40 nm and 43 nm, respectively. 16 Frequency-Domain Photo-Reflectance for the Thin-Film-on-Substrate Geometry 

The frequency-domain photo-reflectance signal is contributed by the carrier density part, the electronic temperature part, and the lattice temperature part, ∆RR = Re {Aρ + BT el + CT ph } (S1) where denotes the weighted average by the probe beam profile, and A, B, and C are material-dependent real constants. As pointed out by Ref., S13 in the modulation frequency range we choose ( < 10 MHz), the electron-phonon coupling is strong enough such that 

Tel ≈ Tph . As a result, we only need to consider the contributions from the carrier and the lattice temperature, ∆RR ≈ Re {CCR ρ + CTR T } (S2) where CCR is the coefficient of carrier-induced reflectance, and CTR = B + C is the effective coefficient of thermoreflectance. In the following, we outline how to model the signal due to carriers and temperature. We start with the dynamics of photo-excited carriers in a thin film described by, 

dρ dt = Da,z 

∂2ρ∂z 2 + Da,∥

 ∂2

∂x 2 + ∂2

∂y 2



ρ − ρτ + P (S3) where ρ is the excited electron density, P is the number density of pump photons absorbed by the thin film per unit time, Da,∥ and Da,z are the in-plane and out-of-plane ambipolar dif-fusivity, respectively, and τ is the carrier recombination time. Taking the Fourier transform of Eq. S3 in the x- and y-directions, we obtain, 

∂2

∂z 2 ˜ρ − Λ˜ ρ + ˜PDa,z 

= 0 (S4) 17 where ˜P = P0αhν pump e− σ2 

> xq2
> x
> 8

e− σ2 

> y q2
> y
> 8

and Λ = Da,∥ 

> Da,z

q2 

> ∥

+ 1  

> Da,z τ

+ iω Da,z . Here, P0 is the absorbed pump laser power, hν pump is the photon energy, α is the inverse penetration depth of the pump laser beam, and σx and σy are the pump laser beam’s radii along the x- and y-directions, respectively. The boundary condition at the two surfaces of the film is given by, 

−Da,z 

∂ ˜ρ∂z + ˜ ρS j = 0 (S5) where Sj (j = 1 , 2) denotes the surface recombination velocities at the top and bottom surface, respectively. Note that the bottom surface corresponds to the interface between the thin film and the insulating substrate. The solution to Eq. S4 takes the following form, ˜ρ = De −√Λz + Ee √Λz + F e −αz (S6) where F = P0αhν pump Da,z (Λ −α2) e−(σxq2  

> x+σyq2
> y

)/8 and, 

D = −(Da,z α + S1)( −Da,z 

√Λ + S2) + ( −Da,z 

√Λ + S1)( Da,z α + S2)e−(√Λ+ α)L

(Da,z 

√Λ + S1)( −Da,z 

√Λ + S2) − (−Da,z 

√Λ + S1)( Da,z 

√Λ + S2)e−2√ΛL F (S7) 

E = −(Da,z α + S1)( Da,z 

√Λ + S2) + ( Da,z 

√Λ + S1)( Da,z α + S2)e(√Λ−α)L

(−Da

√Λ + S1)( Da,z 

√Λ + S2) − (Da,z 

√Λ + S1)( −Da,z 

√Λ + S2)e2√ΛL F (S8) with L denoting the thickness of the thin film. We then take the inverse Fourier transform to obtain ρ(r) and the signal measured by the probe beam is given by, 

Ie(ω) = CCR 2γπσ ′

> x

σ′

> y

Z Z ∞

> 0

ρ(r)e−2x2/σ ′2 

> x

e−2y2/σ ′2 

> y

e−γz dzd 2r∥ (S9) where γ is the inverse penetration depth of the probe beam, and σ′ 

> x

and σ′ 

> y

are the probe beam radii along x- and y-directions, respectively. Note that we extend the upper limit of 18 the integration in the z-direction to infinity, as the light entering the substrate can be ignored given the fact that both penetration depths of the pump and probe beams are smaller than the film thickness. In oxide thin films, such as VO 2,S14 the electron mean free path is on the order of the lattice constant, and thus much shorter than the film thickness. Hence, we can assume isotropic diffusivity, such that Da,∥ = Da,z = Da, and Λ = q2 

> ∥

+ 1 

> Daτ

+ iω Da . Further assuming small surface recombination velocities (weak band bending), we have the following expression of the signal, 

Ie(ω) = CCR (2 π)2

Z P0αγ hνD a(Λ − α2)

 1

α + γ + D

√Λ + γ + E

−√Λ + γ



e− R2 

> xq2
> x
> 4

e− R2 

> y q2
> y
> 4

d2q∥ (S10) where 

D = α

√Λ1 − e−(√Λ+ α)L

−1 + e−2√ΛL (S11) 

E = α

√Λ

−1 + e(√Λ−α)L

−1 + e2√ΛL (S12) and Rx = pσ2 

> x

+ σ′2 

> x

and Ry =

q

σ2 

> y

+ σ′2 

> y

are the effective beam radii along x- and y-directions, respectively. Eq. S10 is the formal expression of the carrier part of the signal. In Fig. S11, we present the representative spatial profiles of the carrier density. The probe-intensity-weighted integral of this distribution corresponds to the carrier part of the measured signal. Next, we consider the temperature part of the signal Ith (ω). As derived in Ref., S3 the phonon temperature profile within the thin film is expressed by, ˜T =



Ce √λz + De −√λz + F e −αz 



e− σ2 

> xq2
> x
> 8

e− σ2 

> y q2
> y
> 8

(S13) where λ = iCpωκ⊥ + κ∥ 

> κ⊥

q2 

> ∥

, F = 1 

> κ⊥
> P0αλ−α2

, and Cp is the volumetric heat capacity. Here, C and 

D are given by, 

C = 12

 α

√λ −



1 + M4

M3

 

F (S14) 19 D = 12



− α

√λ −



1 + M4

M3

 

F (S15) Specifically, M3 and M4 are elements of the transfer matrix relating the temperature and heat flux at the bottom of the substrate to the temperature and the laser-heating-related term at the surface, 



˜Tn(Ln)˜qn(Ln)

 =

M1 M2

M3 M4



˜T1(0) 

F e − R2 

> xq2
> x
> 4

e− R2

> y q2
> y
> 4

 (S16) The construction of such a transfer matrix requires the heat capacity Cp, thickness L, and thermal conductivity components κ∥ and κ⊥ of each layer, as well as the thermal boundary conductance G between adjacent layers. Consequently, the temperature part of the signal is written as, 

Ith (ω) = CTR γ

(2 π)2

Z  Cγ − √λ + D

√λ + γ + Fα + γ



e− R2 

> xq2
> x
> 4

e− R2 

> y q2
> y
> 4

d2q∥

= CTR (2 π)2

Z  1

λ − γ2

 

1 + M4

M3



γ − α



+ 1

α + γ

 P0αγ κ⊥(λ − α2)e− R2 

> xq2
> x
> 4

e− R2 

> y q2
> y
> 4

d2q∥

(S17) Finally, by summing Eq. S10 and Eq. S17, we obtain the total signal measured at different modulation frequencies in the experiment, 

I(ω) = Ie(ω) + Ith (ω) (S18) We refer to the combined expression in Eq. S18 as the carrier and temperature model. We emphasize that, to the best of our knowledge, such a parallel treatment of charge and thermal transport in a thin film under laser irradiation has not been previously reported. 20 Figure S11: a,b, Real and imaginary parts of the photo-excited carrier density ρ(z) within the thin film at f = 10 .5 MHz when the absorbed pump power P0 = 6 mW. Solid lines rep-resent the direct spatial profile ρ(z), while the dashed lines correspond to the carrier density weighted by the exponentially decaying probe intensity in the depth direction ( ∝ e−γz ). The carrier part of the signal collected by the probe is given by CCR × ρ = CCR γ R ρ(z)e−γz dz .We rule out the possibility of a direct photo-induced metal-insulator transition due to the insufficient density of photo-excited carriers. Instead, the metal-insulator is temperature-driven. 21 Figure S12: The DC photo-reflectance R as a function of temperature in FDPR measure-ments during heating. The error bars represent the standard deviations of the data across all modulation frequencies at the same temperature and indicate only a weak frequency de-pendence. A sudden jump in R is observed around 115 K, consistent with the transport measurements. 22 Fitting Analysis in FDPR 

The total signal in Eq. S18 can be reorganized as, 

I(ω) = CTR 



T + CCR CTR × ρ



(S19) In fitting the phase data of the photo-reflectance to our model, the prefactor CTR does not influence the best, and the combined term CCR CTR effectively behaves as an independent variable. Therefore, we define, 

Aρ = CCR CTR (S20) By considering Eq. S2, we identify the physical meaning of Aρ as the inverse of the temper-ature derivative of the carrier density, 

Aρ = ∆T

∆ρ ≈

 ∂ρ ∂T 

−1

(S21) In practice, fitting both the amplitude and phase of the photoreflectance signals allows us to extract the specific values of CCR and CTR. We have demonstrated this capability in prior work S13 for bulk semiconductors. However, because of the strong anti-correlation between coefficient Aρ and ambipolar diffusivity Da in the nanoscale thin-film-on-substrate geometry, we cannot accurately determine Aρ. Even so, this does not affect the relative change observed for Da, irrelevant to the specific choice of Aρ.As a result, we need 3 unknowns to evaluate the carrier part of the signal: the ambipolar diffusion coefficient Da, the inverse of the temperature derivative of the carrier density Aρ,and the carrier recombination lifetime τ . The sensitivity to any variable xi at the jth modulation frequency ωj can be characterized by the phase difference, ∆ϕ(ωj , x i) = arctan 

Im {I(ωj , x i + ∆ xi)}

Re {I(ωj , x i + ∆ xi)}



− arctan 

Im {I(ωj , x i)}

Re {I(ωj , x i)}



(S22) 23 Here, we take the change in the variable, ∆ xi, to be 1% of xi, that is, ∆ xi = 0 .01 xi.As illustrated in Fig. 2, the sensitivities to Da and τ are similar in absolute magnitude but with opposite signs. This suggests that Da and τ are anti-correlated in fitting. The sensitivities with respect to Da and Aρ exhibit a similar frequency dependence, differing only by a scaling factor on the order of unity. This indicates that Da and Aρ are positively correlated in fitting. As a consequence, we can fit only one out of the three variables with confidence. We argue that Aρ and τ are more intimately connected to the band structure, which, within the energy range relevant to pump-excited electrons changes only minimally across the metal-insulator transition, whereas Da is more strongly influenced by electron transport governed by electron–electron and electron–phonon interactions that are suscep-tible to metal-insulator transition. Hence, we treat Aρ and τ as constants, and choose Da

as a fitting variable. Note that the thermal boundary conductance GF S between the thin film and substrate and Da are not correlated (see Fig. S8), and thus we include GF S as an additional fitting parameter. 24 Sensitivity Analysis of LaAlO 3 Substrate 

We find that our FDTR measurements are highly sensitive to the substrate parameters shown in Fig. 3a, measured on a substrate sample with no film. We show below the change in phase for a 1% increase in each of the shown parameters in the same way as calculated in Fig. 2d,e. 

Figure S13: Sensitivity analysis of LaAlO 3 substrate parameters. These measurements were performed on a substrate without a film, coated in a transducer layer, and the results are shown in Fig. 3. Substrate thermal conductivity κ, volumetric heat capacity Cp, and the thermal boundary conductance between the transducer layer and the substrate GT S are shown. 25 Negligible Electron–Phonon Coupling Effects in the Sub-strate Measurements 

We quantify the effect of nonequilibrium electron-phonon coupling in the gold transducer layer on the phase lag using a two-temperature model S15,S16 to determine a modulation frequency regime where the Fourier-only model is sufficient. We observe that the effects of electron-phonon coupling are more pronounced as the modulation frequency becomes higher. The fits in Fig. 3a use a maximum frequency of 10 7 Hz. We reproduce those fits in Figs. S14b,c as well as fits on the same data using a cutoff frequency of 3 .5 × 10 6 Hz, and we do not observe a significant difference between them. We therefore conclude that a Fourier-only model with f < 10 7 Hz is sufficient to exclude the influence of noneuilibrium electron-phonon coupling. 

Figure S14: a, Modeled phase lag using the Fourier-only model (blue) and the two-temperature model including nonequilibrium electron-phonon coupling (orange) at 110 K. Parameters used: κAu ,e = 112 .8 W m −1K−1, κAu ,p = 4 W m −1K−1, Cp, Au = 2 .16 × 10 6 Jm−3K−1, g = 2 × 10 16 W m −3K−1, κLaAlO3 ,e = 0 W m −1K−1, κLaAlO3 ,p = 19 .46 W m −1K−1,

CLaAlO3 ,p = 1 .60 × 10 6 J m −3K−1, Gpp = 1 .7 × 10 8 Wm −2K−1. d, Best fits for heat capacity, and e, thermal conductivity with using data with modulation frequencies f < 1 × 10 7 Hz (the fits used in the main text), and with f < 3.5 × 10 6 Hz. We find that the best fits obtained using data with f < 1 × 10 7 Hz are similar to those using f < 1 × 10 7, a cutoff that almost completely eliminates the influence of electron-phonon coupling. 26 Thermal Conductivity of the Gold Thin Film 

Figure S15: Thermal conductivity of 100 nm Au on glass using the Wiedemann-Franz law. The electrical conductivity of the gold transducer layer is measured with a four-point probe geometry using a Quantum Design Physical Property Measurement System. 27 Heat Capacity of NdNiO 3

Figure S16: Heat capacity of NdNiO 3 as used to fit both the FDTR and FDPR data. Blue dots represent volumetric heat capacity taken from literature measurements on bulk NdNiO 3, obtained using semi-adiabatic calorimetry on a PPMS. S17 Although the phase transition occurs at a higher temperature in the bulk NdNiO 3 and the epitaxy strain in thin-film NdNiO 3 can alter the lattice dynamics, we believe that these factors only minimally affect the sensible component (i.e., the baseline) of the heat capacity. The red dashed line represents the Debye heat capacity prediction used to fix the heat capacity parameter in FDTR and FDPR measurements. 28 Data for Fig. 3b: Thermal Conductivity vs Temperature 

The following tables provide the measured thermal conductivity κ as a function of temper-ature T , along with the associated uncertainty ∆ κ, for both cooling and warming cycles as shown in Fig. 3b. The data were averaged over three cooling cycles and two warming cycles (see Fig. S5). Table S1: Thermal conductivity during cooling and warming 

(a) Cooling 

T (K) κ (W m −1K−1) ∆κ

83.30 1.87 0.135 92.67 2.35 0.183 98.68 2.34 0.222 103.72 2.55 0.166 108.00 2.26 0.275 110.00 2.31 0.332 113.05 2.62 0.197 115.00 3.04 0.423 118.00 3.20 0.548 123.30 3.29 0.332 133.32 3.71 0.320 

(b) Warming 

T (K) κ (W m −1K−1) ∆κ

83.30 1.87 0.146 93.55 2.02 0.222 97.93 2.23 0.270 102.91 2.39 0.195 113.15 2.82 0.351 114.95 2.62 0.221 117.15 2.99 0.379 119.10 3.17 0.354 127.38 3.33 0.405 131.17 3.52 0.485 133.14 3.55 0.331 137.39 3.52 0.375 

# References 

[S1] Pan, G. A. et al. Synthesis and electronic properties of Nd n+1 Ni nO3n+1 Ruddlesden-Popper nickelate thin films. Physical Review Materials 2022 , 6, 055003. [S2] Wilson, R. B.; Cahill, D. G. Anisotropic failure of Fourier theory in time-domain thermoreflectance experiments. Nature Communications 2014 , 5, 5075. [S3] Yang, J.; Ziade, E.; Schmidt, A. J. Modeling optical absorption for thermoreflectance measurements. Journal of Applied Physics 2016 , 119 , 095107. 29 [S4] Yang, J.; Maragliano, C.; Schmidt, A. J. Thermal property microscopy with frequency domain thermoreflectance. Review of Scientific Instruments 2013 , 84 , 104904. [S5] Bisht, R. S.; Samanta, S.; Raychaudhuri, A. K. Phase coexistence near the metal–insulator transition in a compressively strained NdNiO 3 film grown on LaAlO 3:Scanning tunneling, noise, and impedance spectroscopy studies. Physical Review B 

2017 , 95 , 115147. [S6] Preziosi, D.; Lopez-Mir, L.; Li, X.; Cornelissen, T.; Lee, J. H.; Trier, F.; Bouze-houane, K.; Valencia, S.; Gloter, A.; Barth´ el´ emy, A.; Bibes, M. Direct mapping of phase separation across the metal–insulator transition of NdNiO 3. Nano Letters 2018 ,

18 , 2226–2232. [S7] Gomes, M. M.; Manjunath, B.; Vilarinho, R.; Bassou, A. A.; Silva, B.; Oliveira, J.; C¸ aha, I.; Deepak, F. L.; Almeida, B.; Almeida, A.; Kreisel, J.; Tavares, P. B.; ´I˜ niguez, J.; Moreira, J. A. Structural percolation evolution throughout the metal-to-insulator transition in NdNiO 3. Phys. Rev. B 2024 , 109 , 224109. [S8] Lee, J. H.; Trier, F.; Cornelissen, T.; Preziosi, D.; Bouzehouane, K.; Fusil, S.; Valen-cia, S.; Bibes, M. Imaging and Harnessing Percolation at the Metal–Insulator Transi-tion of NdNiO 3 Nanogaps. Nano Letters 2019 , 19 , 7801–7805, Publisher: American Chemical Society. [S9] Yang, J.; Ziade, E.; Schmidt, A. J. Uncertainty analysis of thermoreflectance measure-ments. Review of Scientific Instruments 2016 , 87 , 014901. [S10] Katsufuji, T.; Okimoto, Y.; Arima, T.; Tokura, Y.; Torrance, J. B. Optical spec-troscopy of the metal-insulator transition in NdNiO 3. Physical Review B 1995 , 51 ,4830–4835. [S11] Ruppen, J.; Teyssier, J.; Peil, O. E.; Catalano, S.; Gibert, M.; Mravlje, J.; Triscone, J.-30 M.; Georges, A.; Van Der Marel, D. Optical spectroscopy and the nature of the insu-lating state of rare-earth nickelates. Physical Review B 2015 , 92 , 155145. [S12] Stewart, M. K. Mott Physics near the Insulator-To-Metal Transition in NdNiO 3. Phys-ical Review Letters 2011 , 107 , 176401. [S13] Song, Q.; Warkander, S.; Huberman, S. C. Probing carrier and phonon transport in semiconductors all at once through frequency-domain photoreflectance. Physical Review Applied 2024 , 21 , 034044. [S14] Qazilbash, M. M.; Brehm, M.; Chae, B.-G.; Ho, P.-C.; Andreev, G. O.; Kim, B.-J.; Yun, S. J.; Balatsky, A. V.; Maple, M. B.; Keilmann, F.; Kim, H.-T.; Basov, D. N. Mott transition in VO 2 revealed by infrared spectroscopy and nano-imaging. Science 

2007 , 318 , 1750–1753. [S15] https://github.com/qichensong/sco-thermal .[S16] Wilson, R. B.; Feser, J. P.; Hohensee, G. T.; Cahill, D. G. Two-channel model for nonequilibrium thermal transport in pump-probe experiments. Phys. Rev. B 2013 ,

88 , 144305. [S17] Hooda, M.; Yadav, C. Electronic properties and the nature of metal–insulator transi-tion in NdNiO 3 prepared at ambient oxygen pressure. Physica B: Condensed Matter 

2016 , 491 , 31–36. 31 TOC Graphic