Title: Controlled symmetry breaking of the Fermi surface in ultracold polar molecules

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.22447v1

Published Time: Fri, 27 Feb 2026 01:18:46 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
# Controlled symmetry breaking of the Fermi surface in ultracold polar molecules 

Shrestha Biswas, 1, 2 Sebastian Eppelt, 1, 2 Weikun Tian, 1, 2 Wei Zhang, 3, 4 Fulin Deng, 3 Christine Frank, 1, 2 Tao Shi, 3, 4, ∗ Immanuel Bloch, 1, 2, 5 and Xin-Yu Luo 1, 2, †

> 1

Max-Planck-Institut f¨ ur Quantenoptik, 85748 Garching, Germany 

> 2

Munich Center for Quantum Science and Technology, 80799 M¨ unchen, Germany 

> 3

Institute of Theoretical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China 

> 4

School of Physical Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China 

> 5

Fakult¨ at f¨ ur Physik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at, 80799 M¨ unchen, Germany 

(Dated: February 27, 2026) Long-range anisotropic dipole-dipole interactions between ultracold polar molecules are predicted to drive exotic quantum phases, yet direct many-body signatures of these interactions in degener-ate Fermi gases have remained elusive. Here, we report the observation of an interaction-induced controlled deformation of the Fermi surface, providing a clear many-body signature in a deeply degenerate Fermi gas of 23 Na 40 K molecules. Using double microwave (MW) shielding, we prepare 8 × 10 3 molecules at 0 .23(1) times the Fermi temperature, achieving a three-fold suppression of in-elastic losses compared to single MW shielding while preserving strong elastic dipolar scattering. We observe Fermi surface deformations of up to 7 %, more than two times larger than those observed in magnetic atoms, despite operating at two orders of magnitude lower densities. Crucially, we demonstrate continuous tuning of the interaction potential from axial U(1) to biaxial C 2 symmetry, directly imprinting this geometry onto the Fermi surface. We find excellent agreement between our experimental results and parameter-free Hartree-Fock theory. These results establish MW-shielded polar molecules as a highly tunable platform for exploring strongly correlated dipolar Fermi matter and offer a promising path towards topological superfluidity. 

INTRODUCTION 

Ultracold microwave (MW)-shielded polar molecules are emerging as a powerful platform for engineering long-range interactions and exploring strongly correlated quantum phases [1]. This engineered interaction [2] yields an effective attraction in the plane of the circu-lar MW polarization, naturally favouring the emergence of a chiral px + ip y superfluid in a Fermi gas at suf-ficiently low temperatures [2–5], a long-standing goal across various experimental platforms [6–9]. Unlike mag-netic dipoles or static electric dipoles, which are con-strained to cylindrical U(1) symmetry aligned with the external field, MW-shielded interactions offer additional control parameters. By adjusting the polarization ellip-ticity of the shielding field, the effective interaction po-tential can be continuously tuned from isotropic attrac-tion to highly anisotropic attraction with biaxial C 2 sym-metry in the plane of the MW. This engineered interac-tion is predicted to support a chiral p-wave superfluid in the U(1) limit [3–5] and drive a topological phase tran-sition to a nematic p-wave superfluid as the symmetry is reduced to C 2 [10, 11]. In addition to p-wave superfluids, dipolar molecular gases with highly tunable anisotropic attraction are expected to host a rich hierarchy of corre-lated phases, including stripes, density-waves, and dipo-lar crystals, prior to instability toward collapse [12–15]. A fundamental precursor to these interaction-driven phases is the breaking of the Fermi surface’s (FS) spher-ical symmetry and the emergence of momentum-space anisotropy. In a spin-polarized dipolar Fermi gas, mean-field corrections in the l = 2 angular-momentum chan-nel distort the FS into a quadrupolar shape, elongating it along the direction of strongest attraction. Analo-gous FS anisotropy has been observed in strongly cor-related solid-state systems, including FS reconstructions in underdoped [16] and overdoped [17] cuprates, and ne-matic responses in ruthenates [18] and iron-based super-conductors [19]. Despite extensive theoretical predic-tions [13, 20–25], the experimental observation of FSD in ultracold molecular gases has remained elusive, as it requires simultaneously deep degeneracy and strong anisotropic interactions. After more than a decade of effort, collisional shield-ing techniques have enabled ultracold polar molecules to reach quantum degeneracy [26–31]. In particular, MW shielding led to the first realization of a degenerate Fermi gas of polar molecules in three dimensions [29]. Here, we extend this approach by adding a near orthogonal lin-early polarized MW field [32, 33] to the circular field, suppressing inelastic two-body loss by an additional fac-tor of three and enabling preparation of a deeply degen-erate Fermi gas of 8 ×10 3 23 Na 40 K molecules at 0.23(1) times the Fermi temperature. In this deeply degenerate regime, we observe a con-trolled cylindrical symmetry-breaking deformation of the FS of up to 7 %, constituting the first direct observation of interaction-driven reshaping of the FS in a degenerate Fermi gas of polar molecules. Remarkably, despite op-erating at two orders of magnitude lower densities, the observed deformation is more than two times larger than that reported in a Fermi gas of magnetic atoms [34], high-lighting the much stronger electric dipolar interactions achievable with molecules. As the MW parameters tune 

> arXiv:2602.22447v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 25 Feb 2026

2ƐπEex 

> Ekin

b 

> y’ z’ x’ ξ(°)

c ∆xy (%) Ω π/2π  (MHz )

a

> Ɛσ

d       

> 0.0
> ξ=-10° ξ=+10° 30 μm
> pypxy’ x’
> -0.05 0.05 Subtracted OD
> 0
> Attraction
> +12 -12
> Attraction
> xyxy

FIG. 1. Fermi Surface Deformation of polar molecules with U(1) and C2 symmetric dipolar interactions. a) Experimental geometry: Molecules confined in an optical dipole trap are shielded by two MW fields, a circularly polar-ized field and a nearly orthogonally linearly polarized field. b) 

Mechanism of FSD: Anisotropic Fock exchange energy (green) arising from dipolar interaction elongates the momentum dis-tribution along the direction of attractive interactions, while the isotropic kinetic pressure (red) counteracts it, yielding a squeezed, ellipsoidal FS (blue). c) Hartree–Fock prediction of the dimensionless deformation ∆ xy = σx/σ y − 1 as a function of ellipticity ξ and Rabi frequency Ω π at T /T F = 0 .2. Here 

σx (σy ) denotes the cloud width along x (y), the principal axes of the deformed FS. Fixed parameters: (∆ σ , ∆π , Ωσ ) = 2π×(20 , 30 , 30) MHz. The dashed line marks the dipolar can-cellation point, while shaded gray regions indicate proximity to field-linked resonances [35], where the perturbative theory is no longer valid. 3D plots show the dipolar interaction en-ergy landscape at a representative parameter, with attractive (repulsive) interactions shown in red (blue). d) Top: Differ-ence between an elliptical and a circular Fermi–Dirac fit (see Methods) to the averaged absorption image (65-70 shots) at 

ξ = ±10 ◦. Black ellipses indicate the direction of the MW major axis. Scale bar: 30 μm. Bottom: Difference images obtained by subtracting a 90 ◦-rotated copy of the cloud from the original image, residuals highlighting the quadrupolar de-formation. Black solid (dashed) lines indicate the directions of attractive (repulsive) interactions. x′ − y′ axes indicate the camera axes, whereas x − y axes indicate the principal axes of the deformed FS. 

the interaction from a U(1) to a C 2 symmetric poten-tial, the FS responds directly to this control by continu-ously reshaping from an axially symmetric to a biaxially distorted form. Finite-temperature Hartree–Fock theory quantitatively reproduces the observed deformation with no adjustable parameters. 

FERMI SURFACE DEFORMATION 

A homogeneous, non-interacting degenerate Fermi gas occupies momentum states within a sphere of radius 

kF = (6 π2n0)1/3, where n0 is the gas density. At the trap center, our harmonically confined gas is well approx-imated as quasi-homogeneous under the local density ap-proximation. The anisotropic dipole-dipole interactions (DDI) break the spherical symmetry of the momentum distribution, and the resulting mean-field correction dis-torts the Fermi sphere while conserving its volume [20– 25]. In our system, the dipolar interaction is engineered us-ing two MW fields: an elliptically polarized MW field εσ

and a nearly orthogonal polarized linear field επ (Fig. 1a). These fields generate an effective long-range interaction potential between molecules separated by r = ( r, θ, ϕ ), 

Vdd (r) = 1

r3

r 16 π

5 C3Y2,0(θ, ϕ )+ 

r 8π

15 ¯C3

X

> m=±2

Y2,m (θ, ϕ ),

(1) where C3 and ¯C3 are tunable interaction coefficients de-termined by strength, detuning and polarization of the external MW fields [36], and Y 2,m (θ, ϕ ) are spherical Harmonic functions with θ denoting the polar angle be-tween r and επ and ϕ denoting the azimuthal angle. The first term represents the standard cylindrically symmet-ric interaction, while the second term introduces a biax-ial anisotropy proportional to sin 2 θ cos(2 ϕ), breaking the U(1) rotational symmetry around the quantization axis. In a mean-field description, the dipolar Fermi gas is governed by the interplay of kinetic energy, trap poten-tial, and Hartree–Fock energy arising from long-range anisotropic interactions. Together, these terms deter-mine both the real- and momentum-space density pro-files of the gas. The Hartree contribution elongates the real-space density distribution along the direction of strongest attraction (see Methods), an effect indepen-dent of quantum statistics, as observed in dipolar bosonic gases through magnetostriction [37] and electrostric-tion [31, 38] experiments. In dipolar Bose–Einstein con-densates (BECs), where particles occupy the same micro-scopic state, elongation of the real-space wavefunction is accompanied by contraction of the momentum distribu-tion along that direction. In contrast, the Fock exchange term in Fermi gases energetically favours the occupation of momentum states aligned with the axis of strongest at-traction, where Pauli repulsion is minimized. This leads to an anisotropic, momentum-dependent self-energy that stretches the FS along the direction of strongest attrac-tion. This alignment of momentum-space and real-space deformations, opposite to the behavior in bosonic sys-tems [39], serves as a direct many-body signature of dipo-lar interactions in a degenerate Fermi gas. The deformation of the FS ∆ xy (ρz ) is defined in the 

x−y (ρ−z) plane, a coordinate system determined by the 3(i) (ii) (iii)        

> 30 μm
> y’ x’
> (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii)
> -0.05 0.05 0.0 0.0 -1 1-0.05 0.05 0.0 Subtracted OD Subtracted OD Column integrated r3Vdd
> yxyx

FIG. 2. Radial Fermi surface deformation vs Fermi degeneracy. a) Extracted deformation ∆ xy = σx/σ y − 1 versus reduced temperature T /T F. Blue, orange, and green circles correspond to ξ = −10 ◦, 0◦, and +10 ◦, respectively. Error bars are the standard deviation from the fit to the averaged (15–20 shots) images. The shaded areas are finite-temperature Hartree-Fock predictions with no free parameter, taking into account the uncertainty in molecule numbers, T /T F, and ξ. Insets 

Representative absorption images after 14 ms of ballistic expansion at ξ = ±10 ◦ (filled circles). Each panel averages 65-70 shots, each pixel corresponds to 2 × 2 binning of raw images, with normalized optical depth shown in false colour. b) Residuals from subtracting circular from elliptical Fermi–Dirac fits for the data points marked by filled circles in (a), Scale bar: 30 μm. 

x − y axes in panels (i) and (iii) show the principal axes of clouds for ξ = −10 ◦ and +10 ◦, respectively. c) Corresponding self-subtracted images (see text for definition), highlighting the quadrupolar four-lobe pattern. d) Dimensionless angle dependence of long-range interaction energy, r3Vdd , integrated along z′ direction for negative, zero and positive ¯C3 (top to bottom). In panels (b–d), dashed ellipses show the orientations of MW fields, rows (i), (ii), (iii) correspond to ξ = −10 ◦, 0 ◦, +10 ◦ from top to bottom. 

MW-induced interaction, assuming orthogonal circular and linear MW fields (see Methods). This differs from the laboratory frame used for absorption imaging, denoted as (x′, y ′, z ′) in Fig. 1. In general, ( x, y, z ) is rotated with respect to ( x′, y ′, z ′) by an angle that we extract from the fitted orientation of the expanded cloud, which varies under different MW configurations. 

MANY-BODY SIGNATURE 

We prepared a deeply degenerate gas of 8 × 10 323 Na 40 K molecules with a peak density of 2.4(1) ×

10 12 cm −3 and at T = 0 .23(1) TF, where TF is the Fermi temperature of the gas, in a nearly oblate harmonic trap with frequencies ( ω′

> x

, ω ′ 

> y

, ω ′ 

> z

) = 2 π × (51 , 53 , 140) Hz. The sample was evaporatively cooled under double MW shielding [32, 33], in which nearly orthogonal circularly and linearly polarized MW fields generate a short-range repulsive barrier while preserving a large, tunable long-range dipolar interaction. This scheme strongly sup-presses inelastic collisions and reduces the two-body loss coefficient to 2 ×10 −13 cm 3s−1 at 400 nK, a factor of three lower than that with only the circular MW (see Meth-ods). Thereby, we could boost the peak-density of the molecular gas by a factor of 4, which is essential for ob-serving FSD. During evaporation, the molecules were shielded with a circularly polarized MW field (Rabi frequency Ω σ− =2π × 30 .0(5) MHz, detuning ∆ σ− = 2 π × 20 MHz and po-larization ellipticity ξ = 0 .7(2) ◦), together with a linearly polarized MW field (Rabi frequency Ω π = 2 π × 22 .5(6) MHz, and detuning ∆ π = 2 π × 30 MHz). We define the polarization ellipticity ξ of the field as 0 ◦ for circular and 45 ◦ for a linear MW in the x−y plane. After evaporative cooling, we ramped ξ (and thereby ¯C3) to the target value over 30 ms and held the molecules for 20 ms to allow equi-libration (see Methods). During this process, up to 25 % of the molecules were lost due to inelastic collisions and evaporation, until a new equilibrium was established. To probe the momentum distribution, both MW fields were sequentially switched off over 200 μs, followed by reverse STIRAP and 14 ms of ballistic expansion. At the end of expansion, a slow magnetic field ramp dissociated the Feshbach molecules into free Na and K atoms, and the density distribution of K was probed by resonant imaging light along the z′ axis. 4̿(i) (iii) (ii)        

> 45 μm (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii)
> zρ
> -0.05 0.05 0.0 0.0 -1 1-0.05 0.05 0.0
> Subtracted OD Subtracted OD Column integrated r3Vdd
> z’ x’ zρ

FIG. 3. Axial Fermi surface deformation vs Fermi degeneracy. a) Measured deformation ∆ ρz = σρ/σ z − 1 versus 

T /T F for Ω π = 2 π × 15 MHz (blue, upper), 2 π × 30 MHz (orange, middle), and 2 π × 40 MHz (green, lower). Error bars denote uncertainties from the fits. Shaded bands indicate finite-temperature Hartree–Fock calculations that include trap anisotropy and experimental uncertainties in molecule number, temperature, and Ω π . Insets Representative absorption images of the filled circle data points for Ω π ∈ 2π × (15 , 30 , 40) MHz, each averaged over 60-70 shots, with 2 × 2 binning and normalized OD of raw images. b) Residuals obtained by subtracting elliptical and circular Fermi-Dirac fits from the measured distributions for filled circles marked in (a). ρ − z axes in panels (i) and (iii) denote the principal axes in the MW frame when the circular and linear MW fields dominate, respectively. c) Self-subtracted images for the same data. Scale bar: 45 μm. d) 

Corresponding dimensionless interaction energy r3Vdd integrated along y′. Ellipses and lines indicate the circular and linear MW field directions, respectively; in panels (b–c), their orientations are inferred from polarization measurements assuming the fields lie in the x′–z′ plane, while panel (d) shows the ideal case of orthogonal MW fields. 

To visualize the momentum-space anisotropy and iden-tify the orientation of ellipsoidal FS, we analyzed clouds with high deformation using two complementary meth-ods. First, we fitted the image with both an elliptic and a circular Fermi-Dirac function and subtracted the two fits to reveal the residual deformation. Second, the im-age was rotated by 90 ◦ and subtracted from the origi-nal one; the resulting patterns were radially integrated to extract the orientation of the major axis (see Meth-ods). Both approaches remove the isotropic background and isolate the characteristic four-lobe pattern oriented along the major and minor axes of the interaction poten-tial (Fig. 2b, c). The deduced angles between the major-axis of the deformed FS and camera y′ axis, −48(2) ◦

(56(2) ◦) for ξ = −10 ◦ (ξ = 10 ◦), are consistent across the two methods. Applying two-dimensional Fermi-Dirac fits (see Methods) to the rotated frame aligned with the MW interaction axes yields the two principal half-widths, from which we calculated the dimensionless deformation parameter ∆ xy = σx/σ y − 1, where σx (σy ) is the half-width of the cloud along x(y) direction. We note that the angle between the major axes at ξ = +10 ◦ and ξ = −10 ◦

is ∼ 104 ◦ rather than the expected 90 ◦. We attribute the 14 ◦ discrepancy from orthogonality to the power im-balance and the residual cross-talk between the two MW feeds of the waveguide antenna. To verify that the observed distortion was a quan-tum many-body effect, we tracked its dependence on the degree of Fermi degeneracy (quantified by the re-duced temperature T /T F). The temperature dependence of the deformation for ξ = 0 ◦ and ±10 ◦ is shown in Fig. 2a, which corresponds to the interactions under U(1) symmetry and C 2 symmetry with two near orthogonal axes of attractive interaction, respectively. The defor-mations at different temperatures for a given ξ were ob-tained by fitting the cloud in a fixed coordinate system aligned with the principal axes determined at high defor-mations. For ξ ≈ 0◦ (nearly isotropic interaction in the MW plane), the fitted radii in both coordinates agree within the uncertainty. Upon lowering the temperature, the FS boundary sharpens, and the anisotropic Fock ex-change energy increasingly dominates over isotropic ki-netic pressure, leading to pronounced cylindrical sym-metry breaking of the FS. We incorporated the temper-ature dependence within Hartree-Fock theory by evalu-ating the thermal equilibrium phase-space distribution 

f (r, p ) = 1 /(exp[( ϵ(r,p ) − μ)/k BT ] + 1), where ϵ(r, p )is the quasiparticle energy under dipolar interactions, μ

and T are chemical potential and temperature of the gas, respectively (details in Methods). Both experiment 5and theory show monotonically increasing deformation as T /T F decreases (Fig. 2a), with no indication of the saturation reported for magnetic atoms [34]. 

AXIAL FERMI SURFACE DEFORMATION 

The FS can also be deformed in the ρ − z plane via the axial DDI (Y 2,0 contribution), enabling full three-dimensional control of its shape. The interaction strength can be controlled by tuning Ω π at a fixed cir-cular MW field. This continuously varies the interaction coefficient C3 from negative to positive, passing through the dipolar cancellation point at C3 = 0. With the cir-cular MW ellipticity minimized ( ξ = 0 .7(2) ◦), the inter-action potential is almost cylindrically symmetric. After evaporation in an oblate trap, Ω π was ramped linearly to target values over 40 ms, followed by a 50 ms hold time for equilibration of the molecules. Neither center-of-mass shift nor quadrupolar oscillation of the clouds was observed during the hold time following the 40 ms of ramp (see Fig. 8 in Methods). After equili-bration, the cloud ballistically expanded for 16 ms, and was subsequently imaged with resonant light propagat-ing along y′. Due to the cylindrical symmetry of the cloud, line-of-sight integration preserves the ellipsoidal distortion. The column density was fitted with the ellip-tic Fermi-Dirac profile, and the deformation was quan-tified by ∆ ρz = σρ/σ z − 1. The orientations of the ma-jor axes of the deformed FS relative to the camera z′

axis were extracted using two complementary methods at the highest deformation, yielding 75(2) ◦ and 13(2) ◦

at Ω π = 2π × 15 MHz and Ω π = 2π × 40 MHz, re-spectively. To account for the influence of the oblate trap geometry on the density distribution at finite TOF, we simulated the ballistic expansion of a non-interacting gas in the rotated x − z coordinates and combined this contribution with the deformation predicted by finite-temperature Hartree–Fock theory (see Methods). Mea-surements spanning 0 .25 ≤ T /T F ≤ 0.65 show an increas-ing deformation with decreasing temperature (Fig. 3), highlighting that the observed FSD is a genuine quan-tum many-body effect. The observed orientations of the deformed FS result from finite MW field misalignment and are consistent with the individually measured orien-tations of the σ and π MW fields of 12(1) ◦ and 14(1) ◦

from the z′ axis, respectively (see Fig. 4a, top right in-set). Although polarization measurements do not fix the azimuthal MW angles, agreement between the deduced polar angle of the MW fields and the orientations of the deformed FS indicates that both circular and linear MW fields lie close to the x′–z′ plane. Because the principal axes of the Fermi surface differ from those of the trap, the evolution of the cloud orientation was measured during expansion and found to be dominated by the momentum-space distribution at 16 ms TOF (see Fig. 5). Orientation (°)     

> Hold time (s) Hold time (s)
> ΔT (μK)
> (a0×10  3)Ωπ/2π (MHz) Ωπ/2π (MHz) ξ(°)
> πσ-
> x’ z’
> 14°
> 12°

FIG. 4. Control of Fermi surface deformation via tun-able dipolar interactions. a) ∆ρz versus Ω π at ξ = 0 ◦.The solid line shows a finite temperature Hartree-Fock calcu-lation at 0 .3 TF, while data span 0.26-0.34 TF. Error bars denote the fit uncertainties in deformation. Bottom in-set: Angle between the cloud major and camera z′ axes. Dashed lines indicate the strongest attraction direction for 30 ◦, 20 ◦, 10 ◦ (dark to light) misalignment between circular and linear MW field. Top right inset Independent polar-ization measurements resulting in the normal to circular MW and linear MW fields tilted by 12 ◦ and 14 ◦ from z′, respec-tively. b) Dipolar length, add (in units of the Bohr radius a0)from cross-dimensional rethermalization, exhibiting a mini-mum near the dipolar cancellation point. Error bars include fit uncertainties with density fluctuations of 3–4 runs. Solid lines are add calculated from coupled channel calculation. In-set: Raw rethermalization data showing the evolution of tem-perature difference after directional heating of the cloud at Ωπ = 2 π × 10 MHz (dark blue) and Ω π = 2 π × 30 MHz (light blue), dashed curves are exponential fits. Error bars are the standard error of the mean of 3-4 iterations. c) ∆xy versus 

ξ at Ω π = 2 π × 22 .5 MHz. Deformation magnitude grows with | ¯C3| and changes sign at ξ = 0 ◦. Inset: Fitted cloud orientation shifts by ∼ 90 ◦ at zero ellipticity, reflecting near-orthogonal rotation of the MW major axis. d) add versus 

ξ shows a minimum at ξ = 0 ◦, and symmetric growth with 

|ξ| that follows deformation in (c). Inset: rethermalization traces at ξ = 0 ◦ (dark blue) and 13 ◦ (light blue). 

DEFORMATION CONTROL WITH TUNABLE DIPOLAR LENGTH 

For MW shielded polar molecules, the interaction mag-nitude and symmetry are continuously tunable through the external MW parameters, enabling a controlled 6crossover from axial to biaxial geometries. Correspond-ingly, the FS evolves from an axially symmetric ellipsoid (a = b̸ = c) to a fully anisotropic one ( a̸ = b̸ = c), where 

a, b, and c denote the principal axes of the FS. This independent control of interaction strength and symme-try allows us to disentangle geometric contributions to FSD across diverse interaction regimes. Here, the dipo-lar interaction strength is parametrized by the dipolar length add . This sets the separation between two par-ticles at which the dipolar interaction energy equals the zero-temperature kinetic energy and depends on the in-teraction coefficients C3 and ¯C3 via, 

add = M

2ℏ2

r

C23 + 13 ¯C23 , (2) where M is the mass of the dipolar molecules. We calibrated add using cross-dimensional rethermal-ization of low-density thermal molecules at 700 nK, where the kinetic energy is well below the dipolar energy scale (threshold scattering regime) [40]. For each MW pa-rameter, we extracted the dipolar scattering length from the cross-dimensional rethermalization time τth as σel =

Ncol /(nτ th ¯v), where n is the average density, ¯ v is the average velocity and Ncol is the number of collisions re-quired per rethermalization. We assume σel to be energy independent, which holds for threshold scattering. Under the Born approximation, add =

q

σel × 15 32 π (see Meth-ods). At high ellipticities, the assumption of threshold scattering breaks down, leading to discrepancies between the measured and calculated elastic scattering lengths. Keeping Ω π = 2 π × 22 .5 MHz fixed and tuning ξ from 

−11 .5◦ to +10 ◦, we find that add is minimized at ξ = 0 ◦

and increases three-fold toward either extreme (Fig. 4d). For negative ξ, the MW major axis is oriented at ∼ − 45 ◦

from the y′ axis, and the deformation decreases approx-imately linearly as ξ → 0. As ξ becomes positive, the major axis rotates to ∼ 45 ◦, indicating a near-orthogonal attraction direction, and the deformation again decreases monotonically toward isotropy for ξ → 0. On the other hand, scanning Ω π from 2 π × 5 MHz to 2 π × 40 MHz, we observe that the change of dipolar interaction is asym-metric above and below the dipolar cancellation point, and it grows sharper for Ω π > 2π ×30 MHz. Correspond-ingly, the cloud deformation along the z′ axis increases faster than in the radial direction when the interaction is tuned above the dipolar cancellation point. The prin-cipal axes of the deformed cloud are defined by radially integrating the difference between the original image and its 90 ◦-rotated counterpart, which reveals a continuous rotation of the major axes from the radial to the axial direction as Ω π increased. This behaviour arises from higher-order corrections to the effective interaction po-tential due to the non-orthogonality between the linear and circular MW fields, which introduce a (Y 2,1 + Y 2,−1)contribution. The inset of Fig. 4a shows the best agree-ment with theory for a relative misalignment of 20 ◦–30 ◦,consistent with the individually measured orientations of the MW fields (see 4a, inset)[41]. The measured dipo-lar length add as a function of ξ is systematically higher than the coupled-channel prediction, which is also at-tributable to the same non-orthogonality between the two MW fields. 

> DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION

In this work, we have observed and characterised the Fermi surface deformation in a deeply degenerate Fermi gas of MW-shielded polar molecules, a fundamental benchmark for realising and exploring strongly-correlated dipolar quantum matter. At a maximum induced lab-frame dipole moment of 0 .6 D, we observed deformations as large as 7(1) %. Remarkably, we achieve this at den-sities approximately two orders of magnitude lower than in experiments with magnetic atoms [34]. This differ-ence reflects the much larger molecular dipolar scattering length of ∼ 3000 a0, compared to ∼ 100 a0 for erbium atoms. Despite the reduced density, the ratio of dipo-lar length to interparticle spacing add /d increased from 0.038 (magnetic atoms) to 0.21, corresponding to an ap-proximate fivefold enhancement of the dipolar-to-Fermi energy ratio (see Methods). This brings the system close to the strongly correlated regime where stripe phases and dipolar crystals [12, 14, 15] are expected to emerge due to density-wave instability [13]. An ellipsoidally deformed FS concentrates the density of states along the direction of the strongest attractive interaction. This redistribution provides a promising pathway towards the realisation of superfluidity of polar molecules at elevated temperatures by improving pairing along favourable momentum-space directions [21]. At temperatures below 0 .14 TF [2, 7], theory predicts the onset of p-wave superfluidity, which should be within ex-perimental reach with increased density or interaction strength. The tunability from axial U(1) to biaxial C 2

symmetry provides a route to drive Lifshitz topologi-cal transitions between chiral ( px + ip y ) and nematic (px or py ) superfluid phases [10, 11]. We note that al-though similar in-plane attractive interactions can also be engineered for magnetic atoms using rotating mag-netic fields [42, 43], the associated technical heating [44] makes it challenging to maintain the low temperatures required for fermionic superfluid phases. Beyond equilibrium physics, one can investigate the collective excitation modes of interacting dipolar Fermi systems by applying controlled modulations to the MW fields. Fast modulation of interaction strength can ex-cite quadrupolar motion [45], while rapid rotation of the interaction axis excites the Scissor mode [46] in the deformed FS. Both collective modes provide sensitive probes of anisotropic hydrodynamics [47] and many-body 7coherence [48, 49], and may also enable access to multi-particle excitations [50]. These capabilities establish MW-shielded polar molecules as a versatile platform for exploring strongly correlated dipolar Fermi matter, non-equilibrium dynamics, and a promising route towards topological superfluidity. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We thank A. Pelster and A. Balaˇ z for stimulat-ing discussions and sharing their calculations of FSD at zero temperature for microwave shielding with cir-cular MW, X.-Y.Chen, A. Schindewolf, and C. Chin for stimulating discussions. We gratefully acknowl-edge support from the Max Planck Society, the Eu-ropean Union (PASQuanS grant no. 817482), and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft under Germany’s Excellence Strategy–EXC-2111–390814868 and MCQST seed funding programme. W.T. acknowledges support from the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Postdoctoral Fellow-ship (grant no. 101207037). T.S. and F.D. acknowl-edge the NSFC (Grants No.12525413, No.12135018, No.12047503, and No.12504313). 

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 

All authors contributed substantially to the work pre-sented in this manuscript. S.B. carried out the experi-ments with assistance from S.E., and W.T., S.B., S.E., and W.T. analyzed the data. S.B, S.E., W.T., and C.F. improved the experimental setup. W.Z., F.D., and T.S. performed the theoretical calculations. I.B., X.-Y.L., and W.T. supervised the study. All authors contributed to the interpretation of the data and to the final manuscript. 

DATA AVAILABILITY 

The experimental data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding authors upon request. 

CODE AVAILABILITY 

All relevant codes are available from the corresponding authors upon request. 

COMPETING INTERESTS 

The authors declare no competing interests.  

> ∗

e-mail: tshi@itp.ac.cn  

> †

e-mail: xinyu.luo@mpq.mpg.de 1. Schindewolf, A. et al. From few- to many-body physics: Strongly dipolar molecular Bose-Einstein condensates and quantum fluids (2025). Preprint at arXiv:2512.14511 (2025). 2. Deng, F. et al. Effective Potential and Superfluidity of Microwave-Shielded Polar Molecules. Phys. Rev. Lett. 

130 , 183001 (2023). 3. Cooper, N. R. & Shlyapnikov, G. V. Stable Topological Superfluid Phase of Ultracold Polar Fermionic Molecules. 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 , 155302 (2009). 4. Liu, B. & Yin, L. Topological px + ip y superfluid phase of a dipolar Fermi gas in a two-dimensional optical lattice. 

Phys. Rev. A 86 , 031603(R) (2012). 5. Fedorov, A. K., Matveenko, S. I., Yudson, V. I. & Shlyap-nikov, G. V. Novel p-wave superfluids of fermionic polar molecules. Sci. Rep. 6, 27448 (2016). 6. Sato, M., Takahashi, Y. & Fujimoto, S. Non-Abelian Topological Order in s-Wave Superfluids of Ultracold Fermionic Atoms. Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 , 020401 (2009). 7. Iskin, M. & S´ a de Melo, C. A. R. Evolution from BCS to BEC Superfluidity in p- Wave Fermi Gases. Phys. Rev. Lett. 96 , 040402 (2006). 8. Kallin, C. Chiral p-wave order in Sr 2RuO 4. Rep. Prog. Phys. 75 , 042501 (2012). 9. Ren, H. et al. Topological superconductivity in a phase-controlled Josephson junction. Nature 569 , 93–98 (2019). 10. Read, N. & Green, D. Paired states of fermions in two dimensions with breaking of parity and time-reversal sym-metries and the fractional quantum Hall effect. Phys. Rev. B 61 , 10267 (2000). 11. van Loon, E. G. C. P., Katsnelson, M. I., Chomaz, L. & Lemeshko, M. Interaction-driven Lifshitz transition with dipolar fermions in optical lattices. Phys. Rev. B 93 ,195145 (2016). 12. Bruun, G. M. & Taylor, E. Quantum Phases of a Two-Dimensional Dipolar Fermi Gas. Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 ,245301 (2008). 13. Sieberer, L. M. & Baranov, M. A. Collective modes, stability, and superfluid transition of a quasi-two-dimensional dipolar Fermi gas. Phys. Rev. A 84 , 063633 (2011). 14. Wu, Z., Block, J. K. & Bruun, G. M. Coexistence of density wave and superfluid order in a dipolar Fermi gas. 

Phys. Rev. B 91 , 224504 (2015). 15. Matveeva, N. & Giorgini, S. Liquid and Crystal Phases of Dipolar Fermions in Two Dimensions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 

109 , 200401 (2012). 16. Lalibert´ e, F. et al. Fermi-surface reconstruction by stripe order in cuprate superconductors. Nat. Commun. 2, 432 (2011). 17. Tam, C. C. et al. Charge density waves and fermi surface reconstruction in the clean overdoped cuprate supercon-ductor Tl 2Ba 2CuO 6+ δ . Nat. Commun. 13 , 1 (2022). 18. Borzi, R. A. et al. Formation of a Nematic Fluid at High Fields in Sr 3Ru 2O7. Science 315 , 214 (2007). 19. B¨ ohmer, A. E. & Kreisel, A. Nematicity, magnetism and superconductivity in FeSe. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 

30 , 023001 (2018). 8

20. Miyakawa, T., Sogo, T. & Pu, H. Phase-space deforma-tion of a trapped dipolar Fermi gas. Phys. Rev. A 77 ,061603(R) (2008). 21. Shi, T., Zhang, J.-N., Sun, C.-P. & Yi, S. Singlet and triplet Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer pairs in a gas of two-species fermionic polar molecules. Phys. Rev. A 82 ,033623 (2010). 22. Baranov, M. A., Dalmonte, M., Pupillo, G. & Zoller, P. Condensed matter theory of dipolar quantum gases. 

Chem. Rev. 112 , 9 (2012). 23. Baillie, D., Bisset, R. N. & Blakie, P. B. Stability of a trapped dipolar quantum gas. Phys. Rev. A 91 , 013613 (2015). 24. Velji´ c, V., Balaˇ z, A. & Pelster, A. Time-of-flight expan-sion of trapped dipolar Fermi gases: From the collisionless to the hydrodynamic regime. Phys. Rev. A 95 , 053635 (2017). 25. Velji´ c, V., Pelster, A. & Balaˇ z, A. Stability of quantum degenerate Fermi gases of tilted polar molecules. Phys. Rev. Research 1, 012009(R) (2019). 26. Valtolina, G. et al. Dipolar evaporation of reactive molecules to below the Fermi temperature. Nature 588 ,239–243 (2020). 27. Matsuda, K. et al. Resonant collisional shielding of reactive molecules using electric fields. Science 370 ,1324–1327 (2020). 28. Anderegg, L. et al. Observation of microwave shielding of ultracold molecules. Science 373 , 779–782 (2021). 29. Schindewolf, A. et al. Evaporation of microwave-shielded polar molecules to quantum degeneracy. Nature 607 , 677– 681 (2022). 30. Bigagli, N. et al. Collisionally stable gas of bosonic dipolar ground-state molecules. Nat. Phys. 19 , 1579–1584 (2023). 31. Shi, Z. et al. Bose-Einstein condensate of ultracold sodium-rubidium molecules with tunable dipolar interac-tions (2025). Preprint at arXiv:2508.20518 (2025). 32. Bigagli, N. et al. Observation of Bose–Einstein condensa-tion of dipolar molecules. Nature 631 , 289–293 (2024). 33. Karman, T. et al. Double Microwave Shielding. PRX Quantum 6, 020358 (2025). 34. Aikawa, K. et al. Observation of Fermi surface deforma-tion in a dipolar quantum gas. Science 345 , 1484–1487 (2014). 35. Chen, X.-Y. et al. Field-linked resonances of polar molecules. Nature 614 , 59–63 (2023). 36. Zhang, W. et al. Supersolid Phases in Ultracold Gases of Microwave Shielded Polar Molecules (2025). Preprint at arXiv:2506.23820. 37. Stuhler, J. et al. Observation of Dipole-Dipole Interac-tion in a Degenerate Quantum Gas. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 ,150406 (2005). 38. Zhang, S. et al. Observation of self-bound droplets of ultracold dipolar molecules. (2025). Preprint at arXiv:2507.15208. 39. Baillie, D. & Blakie, P. B. Magnetostriction and exchange effects in trapped dipolar Bose and Fermi gases. Phys. Rev. A 86 , 023605 (2012). 40. Wang, R. R. W. & Bohn, J. L. Anisotropic thermalization of dilute dipolar gases. Phys. Rev. A 103 , 063320 (2021). 41. F.Deng et al. in preparation. 42. Giovanazzi, S., G¨ orlitz, A. & Pfau, T. Tuning the Dipo-lar Interaction in Quantum Gases. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 ,130401 (2002). 43. Tang, Y., Kao, W., Li, K.-Y. & Lev, B. L. Tuning the Dipole-Dipole Interaction in a Quantum Gas with a Rotating Magnetic Field. Phys. Rev. Lett. 120 , 230401 (2018). 44. Baillie, D. & Blakie, P. B. Rotational tuning of the dipole-dipole interaction in a Bose gas of magnetic atoms. Phys. Rev. A 101 , 043606 (2020). 45. Stringari, S. Collective Excitations of a Trapped Bose-Condensed Gas. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 2360–2363 (1996). 46. Gu´ ery-Odelin, D. & Stringari, S. Scissors Mode and Su-perfluidity of a Trapped Bose-Einstein Condensed Gas. 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 , 4452–4455 (1999). 47. Abad, M., Recati, A. & Stringari, S. Quadrupole oscilla-tion in a dipolar Fermi gas: Hydrodynamic versus colli-sionless regime. Phys. Rev. A 85 , 033639 (2012). 48. Kinast, J., Hemmer, S. L., Gehm, M. E., Turlapov, A. & Thomas, J. E. Evidence for Superfluidity in a Reso-nantly Interacting Fermi Gas. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 , 150402 (2004). 49. Wright, M. J. et al. Finite-Temperature Collective Dy-namics of a Fermi Gas in the BEC-BCS Crossover. Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 , 150403 (2007). 50. Greiner, M., Regal, C. A. & Jin, D. S. Probing the exci-tation spectrum of a Fermi gas in the BCS-BEC crossover regime. Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 , 070403 (2005). 51. Biswas, S. et al. Generation of strong ultralow-phase-noise microwave fields with tunable ellipticity for ultracold po-lar molecules (2025). Preprint at arXiv:2512.03007. 52. Karman, T. & Hutson, J. M. Microwave Shielding of Ultracold Polar Molecules. Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 163401 (2018). 53. Lassabli` ere, L. & Qu´ em´ ener, G. Controlling the Scatter-ing Length of Ultracold Dipolar Molecules. Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 163402 (2018). 54. Lin, J. et al. Microwave Shielding of Bosonic NaRb Molecules. Phys. Rev. X 13 , 031032 (2023). 55. Ma, Z.-Y., Thomas, A. M., Foot, C. J. & Cornish, S. L. The evaporative cooling of a gas of caesium atoms in the hydrodynamic regime. J. Phys. B: At. Mol. Opt. Phys. 

36 , 3533 (2003). 56. Li, X., Ke, M., Yan, B. & Wang, Y. Reduction of interfer-ence fringes in absorption imaging of cold atom cloud us-ing eigenface method. Chin. Opt. Lett. 5, 128–130 (2007). 57. Zhang, J.-N. & Yi, S. Thermodynamic properties of a dipolar fermi gas. Phys. Rev. A 81 , 033617 (2010). 58. Zhang, J.-N., Qiu, R.-Z., He, L. & Yi, S. Dynamical prop-erties of a trapped dipolar Fermi gas at finite temperature. 

Phys. Rev. A 83 , 053628 (2011). 

METHODS Preparation and detection 

Ground state molecules 

We prepared a deeply degenerate Fermi gas of 23 Na 40 Kmolecules (8 × 10 3 at T = 0.23(1) TF) starting from a degenerate mixture of bosonic 23 Na and fermionic 

> 40

K atoms. First, we prepared loosely bound Fesh-bach molecules by ramping the magnetic field through 9Orientation  (°) 

> ρ

FIG. 5. Time-of-flight dependence of the axial de-formation. ∆ρz measured as a function of ballistic ex-pansion time for two linear-field strengths: Ωπ = 2π ×

15 MHz (blue circles) and Ω π = 2 π × 40 MHz (green cir-cles). The orange-dashed line shows the expected evolution for a non-interacting, isotropic Fermi gas released from the same oblate trap. Blue and green dashed lines are finite-temperature Hartree–Fock predictions that include both the intrinsic momentum-space deformation and the residual real-space anisotropy imposed by the trap and dipole interactions. The dot-dashed line shows the corresponding value of only momentum-space deformation achievable at a long time of flight. Error bars are the standard fitting error of 8-10 aver-aged images per point. The low density of the cloud resulted in large fitting uncertainties at 18 ms data. Inset: Time-of-flight evolution of the major axis orientation of the deformed cloud. At short times, the orientation is set by the trap axes, while at long times it aligns with the direction of the strongest dipolar attraction. The figures illustrate that both the aspect ratio and the reorientation of the cloud are momentum-space dominated at 16 ms, as shown in Figs. 3 and 4. 

the inter-species Feshbach resonance at 78 .3 G. These molecules were transferred to deeply bound molecules in their ro-vibrational ground state with a body frame dipole moment of 2 .7 D through STIRAP transfer. To obtain a tunable laboratory-frame dipole moment, we dressed the molecules with MW fields blue-detuned from the transition between the ground state and the first rotationally-excited state of opposite parity. The result-ing dipole moment depends on the Rabi frequency and detuning of the dressing MW fields. 

Trap anisotropy 

Ground-state molecules were confined in a crossed op-tical dipole trap made from three 1064-nm beams. Two horizontal beams intersect in the x′–y′ plane at an an-gle of ∼ 70 ◦; their non-orthogonality limits the ra-dial symmetry to ω′

> x

/ω ′ 

> y

≃ 1.2. To minimise spurious deformation at finite TOF images, we added a verti-cally propagating beam with cylindrical symmetry about 

z′. With this additional confinement, the horizontal anisotropy was reduced to ω′

> x

/ω ′ 

> y

< 1.04. For measure-ments in the ρ′ − z′ plane, oblate geometry of the trap with ω′

> z
> ω′
> ρ

= ω′

> z

√ω′

> xω′
> y

≃ 2.6 resulted in residual deforma-tions in the projected density. We take this effect into account by multiplying the Hartree–Fock momentum-space deformation by the geometric factor,  σx/σ z

 

> real

=

p(1 /ω 2 

> x

+ t2TOF )/(1 /ω 2 

> z

+ t2TOF ). The trapping frequen-cies in the x − z plane are calculated from the x′ − z′

coordinates following ωx,z =

q

ω2 

> x′,z ′

cos 2φ + ω2 

> z′,x ′

sin 2φ,with φ being the angle between the two coordinates. Here, σi denotes the 1 /e half-width of the expanded cloud along axis i, and tTOF is the free-flight time before ab-sorption imaging (Fig. 5). 

Detection of molecules 

Once the sample equilibrated under a certain inter-action, the MW fields were adiabatically ramped down in 200 μs, returning the molecules to the ground state with a vanishing laboratory-frame dipole moment. The optical traps were switched off immediately to prevent distortion of the cloud caused by quenching the MW Rabi frequencies. A reverse-STIRAP pulse converted the ground-state dimers back to the loosely bound Feshbach state, after which the cloud expanded ballistically. Dur-ing the final 7 .5 ms of time of flight, we slowly ramped the magnetic field across the Feshbach resonance, dissociat-ing the dimers into free Na and K atoms. Absorption im-ages were recorded by probing the K cloud with resonant imaging light and imaging systems providing a calibrated magnification of Mx′y′ = 2 .33 and Mx′z′ = 1 .98. To verify that the molecule-to-atom conversion does not distort the momentum distribution, we analyzed clouds prepared at the near dipolar cancellation point, where deformation of the FS is expected to be negligible. The extracted deformations, 0 .5(5)% and 2 .2(8)%, are consistent with the expected isotropic momentum distri-bution from the oblate trap at finite time-of-flight. 

Technical details on the MW fields 

Polarization characterisation of the circular MW 

The FS deformation elongates the momentum distri-bution along the direction of the strongest attraction. When the relative strength of the linear ( π) and circu-lar ( σ) MW fields was varied, the principal axis of the effective dipole rotates correspondingly, and our data in Secs. III–IV confirm that the observed deformation fol-lows this axis. For completeness, we verified experimen-10 (× 10 8 cm -3 )(×10 3 )

FIG. 6. Performance of double MW shielding. a) Molecular density as a function of hold time for sam-ples shielded only by σ polarized MW [Ω σ , ∆σ = 2π ×

(20 , 20) MHz, in orange] and for σ + π MW shielding [Ω σ , Ωπ , ∆σ , ∆π = 2 π × (30 , 22 .5, 20 , 30) MHz, in blue]. The double-field configuration suppresses inelastic losses, yield-ing a three-fold reduction of the loss coefficient to 2 .3(1) ×

10 −13 cm 3s−1, compared to 7 .4(1) × 10 −13 cm 3s−1 for σ only shielding. b) Evolution of molecule number and reduced tem-perature during forced evaporation. Starting from 3 .6 × 10 4

molecules at 0 .81(1) TF, the sample was evaporated to 8 × 10 3

molecules at T /T F = 0 .23(1). 

tally that the cloud indeed elongates along the major axis of the MW field, also for ±ξ.The circular polarization was produced by combining two orthogonal, linearly polarized MW fields with a con-trolled phase offset. Varying this phase rotates the ma-jor axis of the resulting elliptic field by ±90 ◦; the sense of the rotation depends on whether the dominant cir-cular component was σ− or σ+. From the geometry of our setup, the measured FS elongation shown in Fig. 1 aligns with the calculated major axis when the circu-lar component was predominantly σ−. To quantify the polarization, we measured the Rabi frequencies for driv-ing the transitions from the |J = 0 , m J = 0 ⟩ state to different mJ levels in the first rotational excited state, 

|J = 1 , m J ∈ {− 1, 0, +1 }⟩ . Because the Zeeman split-ting between the mJ sub-levels was only 40 − 100 kHz at the magnetic field used (135 G), we removed the band-pass filters from the MW path, set the detuning to zero, and attenuated the field such that the single-photon Rabi frequencies are ∼ 10 kHz [51]. We also used indepen-dently measured relative phase shifts of the removed fil-ters at the operating frequency and corrected the driv-ing phase by 5 ◦. The extracted Rabi frequencies are Ωπ , Ωσ+ , Ωσ− = 2 π × [1 .56(5) , 0.82(2) , 9.0(2)] kHz con-firming a predominantly σ− circular polarization with small σ+ and π admixtures that are consistent with the ellipticities used in the main experiment. ̼ 

> ̼
> πσ-
> 76°
> ڜ^ ڜ`
> 14°
> ڜ^
> 12° y’

c

ΦΦ

a 

> Variable Attenuators Phase Shifters Amplifers Splitter Source (2 B+ Δ)

b d

FIG. 7. Control electronics and Geometry of the MW setup. a) Electronics used to generate a circularly polar-ized MW field. By controlling the relative power and phase between the two feeds, we can generate arbitrary polariza-tion ellipticity in the MW. Details of the MW control elec-tronics for the σ-field can be found in [51]. b) Electronics used to generate a linearly polarized MW field. We tuned the MW power with the variable attenuator to change the Rabi frequency. c) Orientation of MW fields at the location of molecules. The coordinate axes correspond to the camera frame, with the z-axis pointing in the vertical direction. The normal to the plane of the circularly polarized MW field made an angle of 12(1) ◦ (shown in orange), while the linearly po-larized field made an angle of 14(1) ◦ (shown in brown). d) 

The MW major axes of circular MW for positive and negative ellipticity are shown in dark orange. They are separated by 104 ◦ (same as 76 ◦ because of C 2 symmetry), deviating from the ideal orthogonal configuration. 

Dual–colour MW shielding for fermionic molecules 

A single, circular MW can suppress the universal short-range loss of ground-state molecules by creating a repul-sive shielding barrier [29, 52, 53]. But fermions still suf-fer from enhanced loss in the vicinity of field-linked (FL) resonances [35]. Unlike the bosonic case, where evapora-tion was nearly impossible without additional linear MW fields [30, 54], for fermionic 23 Na 40 K molecules, adding a linearly polarized MW was mainly useful to push the resonances to higher ellipticity values at high Ω σ . We quantified two-body inelastic loss under circular and dou-ble MW shielding by holding the molecular sample for variable durations and fitting the resulting density de-cay to a two-body loss model [51]. For circular-only MW shielding, we obtained best two-body loss coefficient of 7.4(1) × 10 −13 cm 3s−1 at 400 nK, achieved with MW pa-rameters Ω σ , ∆σ = 2 π × (20 , 20) MHz. In compari-son, double MW shielding yields a significantly reduced loss rate of 2 .3(1) × 10 −13 cm 3s−1 at the same tempera-ture using Ω σ , Ωπ , ∆σ , ∆π = 2 π ×(30 , 22 .5, 20 , 30) MHz. Because the linear field can cancel the dipolar effect of the circular MW at long range, both inelastic and elastic scattering were greatly reduced at the dipolar cancella-tion point. For a fermionic gas, where s-wave scatter-ing is absent, evaporation would then stall. We there-fore operated at slightly below the cancellation condition 11 (Ω π = 2 π × 28 MHz), with an optimized elastic to inelas-tic scattering rate. The geometry of MW fields in our setup, as shown in Fig. 7, were such that the normal to the circular polar-ization plane made an angle of 12 ◦ and the linear field made an angle of 14(1) ◦ from the z′ axis, as inferred from the relative strengths of the σ+, σ−, and π polarization components of each field. While these measurements do not reveal the azimuthal orientation, the FSD in the x′–z′

plane indicates the two fields lie close to the x′ −z′ plane. This non-orthogonality reduces the efficiency of the dou-ble shielding scheme. A fully orthogonal geometry will be implemented in future upgrades and will allow even more precise control of the dipolar interaction tensor. 

> MW field gradient

The shielding field wavelength ( λMW ≃ 5.2 cm) is orders of magnitude larger than the typical cloud size (∼ 20 μm), so spatial variations of the field over the sample appear as a linear intensity gradient rather than higher-order curvature. Such gradients arise from the in-trinsic emission pattern of the dipole antenna and from reflections off the surrounding metallic hardware. We quantified the gradient by monitoring the center-of-mass acceleration of a freely expanding cloud when the MWs were left on during expansion time; the acceleration is proportional to the local intensity variation. Across the entire range of ξ and Ω π used in this paper, the domi-nant gradient component points along the z′-axis, with a magnitude that decreases for positive ξ and for larger Ωπ . This gradient depends more sensitively on Ω π than on ξ, as shown in Fig. 8a, b. Accordingly, a slower ramp and longer hold were used for Ω π than for ξ to minimize disturbance on the cloud during the ramp. No center-of-mass oscillations were observed during the hold time (see Fig. 8). Instead, we noted a deformation in the momen-tum distribution, which gradually reduced over extended hold times. This reduction can be attributed to heat-ing caused by collisional losses at long hold times. The shift of the x′, y ′ trapping frequencies never exceeds 2 %, and the z′ trapping frequency shifts at most 10 %. These variations translate into a 3–5 % systematic uncertainty in the extracted reduced temperature T /T F and to an uncertainty below 0 .5 % on measured deformation (see Figs. 2 and 3). 

> Elastic scattering rate

We determined the elastic scattering cross-section σel 

for a set of MW parameters using cross-dimensional rethermalization of a thermal molecular cloud at T ≃

700 nK. Parametric excitation obtained by modulat-ing the trap depth at twice the z′ frequency raises the temperature along z′ while leaving the radial temper-atures almost unchanged. The subsequent relaxation of the temperature imbalance was fitted with ∆ T =∆T0e−t/τ th , where ∆ T = Tz′ −Tx′ and τth was the rether-malization time. Using a thermal, low-density sample for this measurement ensures τth does not get saturated by hydrodynamic flow [55]. In the collision picture, τth is related to σel through 1/τ th = nσ el ¯v/N col , where Ncol is the average number of elastic collisions required per rethermalization and 

n is the average density and ¯ v is the average veloc-ity of particles. For collision energy much lower than the dipole-dipole energy (threshold scattering), Ncol is energy-independent [40], and if the equilibration is dom-inated by short-time dynamics, it is given by, 

Ncol (φ) = 112 45 + 4 cos(2 φ) − 17 cos(4 φ) (3) where ϕ is the angle between dipoles and the trap axes. With φ = 12 ◦ (dominant σ− field, below the dipolar can-cellation point), we obtain Ncol = 3 .0; above cancellation 

φ ≃ 14 ◦ gives Ncol ≈ 2.9 (dominant π). We calculate the dipolar interaction strength parameters C3 and ¯C3 from coupled-channels calculations for double MW shielding at finite ellipticities. This allows us to obtain the dipolar scattering cross section, 

σel = 32 π

15 

 M

2ℏ2

2 

C23 + 13 ¯C23



= 32 π

15 a2dd . (4) This definition generalizes the standard dipolar length to biaxial potentials by incoherently summing the scat-tering contributions from the axial ( C3) and non-axial ( ¯C3) channels under the Born approximation. The cal-culation agrees well with the experimentally extracted dipolar length add when the energy-independent Ncol is applied. 

> Approximations on coordinate systems

The MW-engineered dipolar interaction is formulated in the MW frame, where the z-axis is defined by the π

field and the x − y plane by the σ field, assuming orthog-onality between the two fields, as shown in Eq. 1. Experimentally, measurements are performed in the laboratory frame ( x′, y ′, z ′), with y′ as the horizontal and 

z′ as the vertical imaging direction. In the ideal case, z

and z′ coincide. However, due to imperfect alignment and cross-coupling between antennas, the principal axes of the MW fields deviate from the laboratory axes, which can vary with MW parameters. To connect experiment to theory, we adopt the following approximations: In Fig. 2, we measure the projection of FSD onto the x′ − y′ plane, neglecting the 12 ◦ tilt between the x − y plane and the 

x′ − y′ plane. In Fig. 3, we measure the projection of 12 π                      

> ax ay az
> Gradient acceleration (m/s 2 )
> FIG. 8. Characterization of MW field gradient and deformation versus hold time. a) and b) Acceleration of untrapped molecules by MW gradient in x′, y ′and z′directions as a function of ξand Ω π.We observe that the change of gradient is more sensitive to Ω πthan to ξ.c) Deformation as a function of hold time for Ω π= 2 π×15 MHz (blue circles) and 2π×40 MHz (green circles). Error bars denote the standard fitting error, with images averaged over 8–10 shots. The dashed line at 50 ms shows the condition for measurements in the main text.

FSD onto the x′ − z′ plane, assuming the z-axis is in the 

x′ − z′ plane. For each set of MW parameters, we deter-mine the effective x-axis ( z-axis) direction in the image plane by fitting the principal axes of the deformed cloud. While calculating the dependence of deformation on tem-perature in Fig. 2 and 3, we fix the principal axes for higher-temperature images to those of a most deformed cloud, to improve the robustness of fits at lower deforma-tion by eliminating one free fit parameter. This analy-sis procedure accounts for the MW-parameter-dependent orientation of the MW polarization axes. 

> Analysing images
> Benchmarking imaging system

Two identical Manta G-145 NIR cameras were used to image the cloud in the x′-y′ plane and the x′-z′ plane. The typical optical depth of an individual image was 

≃ 0.2. For each data point in Figs. 2, 3, and 4, we averaged 15-20 images, except for the highlighted solid point showing the four-lobe pattern. In that case, we averaged 60–70 images to suppress background artefacts. We averaged individual shots after centering them to a common center, determined with a Gaussian fit, then fit the mean image with the two-dimensional Fermi–Dirac profile described below. The quoted statistical error is the square root of the corresponding diagonal element of the fit covariance matrix. Since the cloud deviates only weakly from a circu-lar shape, we removed spatially correlated background structure before fitting the two-dimensional Fermi–Dirac profile utilizing the background eigenfaces [56]. About 80–100 reference frames without atoms were reshaped into column vectors and stacked to form a data ma-trix. We built the covariance matrix from it and com-puted its eigenvectors, each of which represents a dom-inant background mode. After sorting the components by descending eigenvalues, we projected each absorption image onto the leading background modes to obtain their weights and reconstruct the background via a weighted sum of eigenvectors. By subtracting the reconstructed background from the absorption image, we suppressed spatially correlated noise. To quantify denoising perfor-mance, we evaluated the root-mean-square (RMS) noise in the optical density (OD) values across the field of view for each image, excluding the atomic cloud using a circu-lar mask with radius equal to the Gaussian half-width. We plotted the reduction in background noise relative to no background subtraction as a function of the number of eigenfaces included in the background reconstruction. We observe that the noise decreases sharply for the first six eigenfaces, the first eigenface alone reducing the noise by 24% (see Fig. 9, main panel). The inset shows a repre-sentative elliptic cloud before and after denoising within a 90 × 90 pixel region centered on the cloud. 

> Image analysis

For each data set, we located the principal axes using two complementary methods at high deformation of the cloud. First, we fitted the image with a two-dimensional 13 0.0 0.5 1.0           

> Normalized OD
> FIG. 9. Performance of image denoising with the eigenface method. The correlated noise in the background as a function of the number of eigenfaces used to reconstruct the reference. The eigenfaces were sorted according to their overlap with the image. Inset: The left is the original aver-aged image. The right is the image after subtracting the ref-erence reconstructed with 60 eigenfaces. The color bar shows a false-color representation of the normalized optical density.

elliptic Fermi–Dirac distribution that allows for different widths along the principal axes, OD( x′, y ′) = A Li 2

"

−ζ exp 

(

− (x′ − x′

> 0

)2

2σ2

> x′

− (y′ − y′

> 0

)2

2σ2

> y′

)# 

,

(5) where ( x′, y ′) are coordinates rotated by an angle φ which can also be a fit parameter; ( x′

> 0

, y ′

> 0

) denotes the center of the cloud, σx′ and σy′ are the Gaussian half-widths after expansion, ζ is the fugacity and Li 2 is the polylog-arithmic function of order two. We then fitted the same data with the constraints σx′ = σy′ and φ = 0, corre-sponding to a circular cloud. Using the fit parameters, we reconstructed both distributions and subtracted the circular fit from the elliptic fit. This subtraction isolates the residual deformation and reveals a characteristic four-lobe pattern with maxima along the elongated axis of the cloud (see Fig. 2b). Second, we rotated the average image by 90 ◦ and sub-tracted it from itself. For an elliptic cloud, this operation again yields a four-lobe pattern. We radially integrated this pattern and fitted it with OD( ϑ) = A sin(2 ϑ + φ), where ϑ was the polar angle in the imaging plane and 

φ gives the orientation of the major axis. Note that the rotation can only be performed in integer pixel steps; the residual pattern is slightly affected by this pixelation, which reduces its apparent symmetry. Both methods yield angles between the major and camera axes that agree within the uncertainty. We show the sensitivity of fitted deformation on the fixed orienta-tion φ in Fig. 10. Although the gas was in global thermal equilibrium with a single temperature, modeling the dis-tribution of the gas under FSD effect as different σ’s, rather than an anisotropic chemical potential, captures the deformation while preserving an analytic fit. 

> Theory
> Mean-field calculation of Fermi surface deformation

The trapped ultracold molecular gas is described by the Hamiltonian, ˆH = ˆHK + ˆHU + ˆHV. (6) Here, ˆHK = − R d3r ˆψ†(r) ℏ2∇2/(2 M ) ˆψ(r) denotes the kinetic energy, with ˆψ(r) the fermionic field operator and 

M the mass of the molecule. The single-particle po-tential energy is given by ˆHU = R d3r U (r) ˆψ†(r) ˆψ(r), where U (r) = M (ω2

> x

x2 + ω2 

> y

y2 + ω2 

> z

z2)/2 describes an anisotropic harmonic trap with trapping frequencies 

ωi=x,y,z . For simplicity, we assume ωx = ωy hereafter. ˆHV = 12

Z

d3rd 3r′ ˆψ†(r) ˆψ†(r′)V (r − r′) ˆψ(r′) ˆψ(r) (7) denotes the interacting energy. In the presence of double MW fields (π and σ−) and finite ellip-ticity in σ− MW, the effective interaction between molecules takes the form V (r) = V0(r) + ∆ V (r), where V0(r) =

q 16 π 

> 5

C3Y20 (θ, ϕ )/r 3 and ∆V (r) =

q 8π 

> 15

¯C3 [Y 22 (θ, ϕ ) + Y 2−2(θ, ϕ )] /r 3 with C3( ¯C3)

C3 =

r 15 2πη

48 π (3 cos 2 β − 1) cos 2 α sin 2 α

¯C3 =

r 15 2πη

8π sin 2 α cos 2 α sin 2 ξ cos 2 β

(8) being the strength of the (non-)cylindrically symmetric part of the interaction, where η = p8π/ 15 d20/ϵ 0 with ϵ0

being the electric permittivity of vacuum and d0 the mag-nitude of the permanent electric dipole moment of each molecule. Three Euler angles α, β, and γ are determined by the parameters of the MW fields [36]. Ylm (θ, ϕ ) are spherical harmonics with θ and ϕ being the polar and azimuthal angles, respectively. Following the approach in Ref. [57, 58], we apply the mean-field and local density approximations to obtain the thermal equilibrium phase-space distribution func-tion (PSDF) at temperature T ,

f (r, k) = 



exp 

 ϵ(r, k) − μkBT



+ 1 

−1

≥ 0, (9) where ϵ(r, k) = ℏ2k2/(2 M ) + Ueff (r, k) is the quasi-particle energy. The effective potential consists of the 14 180 90 0 90 180  

> Angle, (°)
> 0.08
> 0.04
> 0.00
> 0.04
> 0.08
> Average OD

a

> 100 80 60 40 20 0
> Fixed orientation (°)
> 10
> 5
> 0
> 5
> 10
> xy  (%)

b

FIG. 10. Radial integration of self-subtracted image and effect of fixing the coordinate axis for fitting deforma-tion. a) Blue (Green) points show the radial average of the self-subtracted image for ξ = −10 ◦(+10 ◦). We binned our data in 80 different angular coordinates, and each point on the plot shows the averaged optical density in each bin, integrating over the radial coordinate. Error bars are the standard error of the mean of all points in each angular bin. Dashed lines are a sinusoidal fit to the data with a frequency of two; from this, we extracted the major axis orientation of the ellipsoidal cloud. b) Fitted deformation for different fixed orientations of the coordinate axes. The dash-dotted line indicates the angle extracted from fits to the radially integrated images that was used for the deformation presented in Fig. 2. 

trap, Hartree, and Fock contributions: Ueff (r, k) =

U (r) + ϵH (r) + ϵF (r, k), with the Hartree term given by ϵH (r) = R d3r′V (r − r′)n(r′), and the Fock term by ϵF (r, k) = − R d3k′ ˜V (k − k′)f (r, k′)/(2 π)3. Here, 

n(r) = R d3k f (r, k)/(2 π)3 is the real-space density dis-tribution, and ˜V (k) is the Fourier transform of the effec-tive interaction. The chemical potential μ is determined self-consistently by enforcing the total particle number constraint N ≡ R d3rd 3kf (r, k)/(2 π)3.To avoid significant computational overhead, we com-bine a self-consistent iteration scheme with a perturba-tive correction to compute the deformation of the FS. The procedure is implemented as follows. First, we ne-glect the anisotropic component ∆ V and apply the self-consistent method developed in Ref. [58] to obtain the cylindrically symmetric parts of the distribution of quasi-particle energy, denoted as 

f00 (r, k) = f00 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ) (10) and 

ϵ00 (r, k) = ϵ00 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ), (11) respectively. Here, we introduce column coordinates in real and momentum space: r ≡ (ρ, z, ϕ ) and k ≡

(kρ, k z , ϕ k), where ρ (kρ), z (kz ) and ϕ (ϕk) denote the radial distance, height, and azimuthal angle in real (mo-mentum) space, respectively. Next, we reintroduce ∆ V

and evaluate its leading-order corrections to f and ϵ, i.e., ∆f (r, k) and ∆ ϵ(r, k). A leading-order expansion of the Fermi-Dirac distribution yields, 

f (r, k) = 1

eβ(ϵ(r,k)−μ) + 1 = 1

eβ(ϵ00 +∆ ϵ−μ) + 1 = f00 (r, k) + ∆ f (r, k)

≈ f00 [1 − βe β(ϵ00 −μ)

eβ(ϵ00 −μ) + 1 ∆ϵ(r, k) + O(∆ ϵ2)] ,

(12) hence the correction ∆f (r, k) ≈ − βe β[ϵ00 (r,k)−μ]f 200 (r, k)∆ ϵ(r, k), (13) where β = 1 /(kBT ). Similarly, the quasi-particle energy ϵ(r, k) =

ϵ00 (r, k) + ∆ ϵ(r, k), where ∆ϵ(r, k) ≈

Z

d3r′∆V (r − r′)n00 (r′)

−

Z d3k′

(2 π)3 ∆ ˜V (k − k′)f00 (r, k′)+

Z

d3r′V0(r − r′)∆ n(r′)

−

Z d3k′

(2 π)3 ˜V0(k − k′)∆ f (r, k′).

(14) Here, 

n00 (r) ≡

Z d3k

(2 π)3 f00 (r, k) (15) and ∆n(r) ≡

Z d3k

(2 π)3 ∆f (r, k) (16) 15 are the density distribution and its first-order correction, respectively. Since ∆ V (r) ∝ cos(2 ϕ) and ∆ ˜V (k) ∝ cos(2 ϕk), the ansatz ∆f (r, k) =∆ f20 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ) cos(2 ϕ)+ ∆ f02 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ) cos(2 ϕk) (17) and ∆ϵ(r, k) =∆ ϵ20 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ) cos(2 ϕ)+ ∆ ϵ02 (ρ, z ; kρ, k z ) cos(2 ϕk) (18) provide a self-consistent solution. Finally, the FSD is extracted based on f00 and its perturbative correction. The momentum distribution is given by, ˜n(k) ≡

Z

d3r[f00 (r, k) + ∆ f (r, k)] , (19) which determines the momentum-space widths σx,y ≡

[R d3k˜n(k)k2 

> x,y

/(2 π)3]1/2. In the TOF experiment, the aspect ratio ∆ xy ≡ σx/σ y − 1 is measured. 

> Calculation of Dipolar-to-Fermi energy ratio

To quantify the system’s proximity to the strong inter-action regime, we evaluate the ratio of the dipolar inter-action energy to the Fermi energy, Edd /E F. The Dipolar energy is obtained from the dipolar length add as, 

Edd = n0d2eff 

4πϵ 0

= n02ℏ2add 

M , (20) where deff is the the effective dipole moment, M is the mass of the dipoles, and n0 is the peak density of the gas. Within the local density approximation (LDA), the trapped gas is treated as locally homogeneous at the trap center. Accordingly, we approximate the density entering Eq. 20 by the peak density. For a harmonically trapped Fermi gas at finite tem-perature, the peak density is expressed in terms of the fugacity ζ as, 

n0(M, T, ζ ) = −  M k B T

2πℏ2

3/2 Li 32 (−ζ), (21) where Li ν denotes the polylogarithm of order ν. The fu-gacity ζ is extracted by fitting the measured density dis-tributions with the finite-temperature Fermi-Dirac pro-file (see Eq. 5), and the temperature T is obtained via 

T = TF

h

− 16 Li 3(−ζ)

i1/3

. Here, the Fermi temperature for a harmonic trapped gas is given by TF = EF/k B =

ℏ¯ω(6 N )1/3/k B, where ¯ ω is the geometric mean trapping frequency and N is the total particle number. Using these relations, we obtain n0 ≈ 2.28 ×10 12 cm −3,corresponding to Edd = kB × 5.5 nK at 3000 a0 dipolar length. With a Fermi energy of EF = kB × 120 nK, this yields Edd /E F = 0 .046, approximately a factor of five larger than that reported for magnetic erbium atoms [34].