Title: Surface-induced vortex core restructuring in a spin-triplet superfluid

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.12682v1

Published Time: Wed, 15 Apr 2026 01:26:15 GMT

Number of Pages: 8

Markdown Content:
# Surface-induced vortex core restructuring in a spin-triplet superfluid 

Riku Rantanen, ∗ Mikael Huppunen, Erkki Thuneberg, † and Vladimir Eltsov 

Department of Applied Physics, Aalto University, PO Box 15100, FI-00076 AALTO, Finland 

(Dated: April 15, 2026) Observing the structure of quantized vortices can provide evidence for the pairing nature of a superfluid or superconductor and pinpoint its order parameter. Spin-triplet superfluid 3He supports a variety of vortices, calculated and identified so far in bulk fluid. We show numerically that the vortex core in 3He is strongly altered near a surface, resulting in a structure inhomogeneous along the vortex line. The effect is asymmetric with respect to the relative orientation of the core order parameter anisotropy axis and the surface normal. In a wide range of external conditions, the vortex structure at the surface is found to be completely different from that in bulk. The effect originates from the combination of spin-orbit interaction in triplet pairing with the symmetry breaking by the surface. As an implication, surface-limited vortex core observations in a triplet-candidate system may not reflect the bulk structure. We propose an experimental verification of the effect by measuring a transition in the vortex structure in thin slabs of superfluid 3He-B. 

Introduction —Materials that support spin-triplet su-perconductivity can provide an important platform for hosting topologically protected Majorana modes [1, 2], which are beneficial for quantum computing applications. In practice, such materials are rarely found in nature. Recent evidence points toward UTe 2 as the leading can-didate for intrinsic spin-triplet superconductivity [3–10], although the exact form of the order parameter is still debated. In addition to measurements of the bulk state of UTe 2, the observation of topological defects such as quantized vortices and their detailed structure can be used as an additional constraint to pinpoint the possible pairing states. An unusual asymmetric vortex has been recently observed in scanning tunneling microscope mea-surements of UTe 2 [11–13], providing further proof of the complex multicomponent nature of the order parameter. The only system where spin-triplet pairing has been conclusively confirmed and the order parameter defini-tively established is the neutral p-wave superfluid 3He. The order parameter A is a 3 × 3 complex matrix, de-scribing the pairing amplitudes on the three spin-triplet states and the three p-wave orbital states. The multi-component order parameter supports a wide variety of quantized vortices [14–19], and their structures are well understood in the bulk. In this Letter we focus on the two types of vortices found in the B phase of 3He, the A-phase-core and the double-core vortices, where the former is observed at higher temperatures and pressures and the latter in the rest of the phase diagram [15, 20–22]. A key difference between the experimental methodol-ogy for solid state systems like UTe 2 and superfluid 3He is that in superconductors measurements are typically done using local probes scanning the surface of the ma-terial, while in 3He observations are often limited to the bulk, for example by measuring the nuclear magnetic res-onance response of the whole sample. In this Letter we demonstrate, using numerical simulations of 3He, that the vortex core structure observed at the surface can be distinct from the structure in the bulk. The vortices in 

> 3

He-B have broken inversion symmetry. In the bulk it leads to the double degeneracy of the vortex line with given circulation. We have found that at the surface of the sample this degeneracy is lifted and leads to the ex-pansion of the core at one end of the vortex line and con-traction at the other (see Fig. 1). The expanded core is filled with the A phase in a funnel shape independently of the core structure in the bulk. The contracted part usu-ally favors the double-core structure, but a previously unseen symmetric core filled with β phase is observed at intermediate temperatures in a thin slab geometry. Re-markably, selection between expanded or contracted core at a particular surface is not related to the direction of the mass current in the vortex, but controlled by the spin anisotropy of the vortex core structure. The observed vortex restructuring is found to origi-nate from the interaction of the spin and orbital degrees of freedom of the order parameter in presence of a sur-face. We expect the effect to be general in triplet systems. Our findings are thus crucial for the correct interpreta-tion of vortex measurements in such systems: While mak-ing conclusions, one should keep in mind that the vortex structure observed at the surface may be substantially different from that in the bulk. 

Vortices in bulk —In zero magnetic field, two super-fluid phases of 3He exist in bulk: the A phase at higher pressures and temperatures and the B phase in the rest of the pressure-temperature phase diagram. The order parameter in the B phase is 

A = ∆ Beiϕ R , (1) where ∆ B is the amplitude and R a rotation matrix that describes the relative orientation of the spin and orbital spaces. It reflects the broken symmetry of independent spin and orbital rotations. The rotation matrix is com-monly parametrized by a vector ϑ, giving the rotation angle ϑ = |ϑ| and rotation axis ˆϑ = ϑ/ϑ . Around a quantized vortex in 3He-B the phase ϕ winds by 2 π,which is associated with a superfluid mass flow with ve-

> arXiv:2604.12682v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 14 Apr 2026

2(a) Maximum pairbreaking Specular (b) (c) (d) (e)                   

> FIG. 1. Surface-induced core restructuring. (a) The funnel shape of the A-phase-core vortex in three dimensions. The colors indicate the nearest superfluid phase (determined as in Appendix C of Ref. [22]), while the bulk B phase is left trans-parent. The direction of superfluid velocity vsand the soft-core orientation ˆθaround the vortex are shown. The dashed line marks the plane where panels (b)-(e) are plotted. (b)-(e) Cross sections along the vortex line in a semi-infinite system. The orientation of the soft core ˆθis marked with circles with dots (towards viewer) and crosses (away from viewer). The two arrows between panels depict the wall normal ˆ w. In pan-els (b) and (c) the boundary conditions are maximum pair-breaking, while in panels (d) and (e) they are specular. In panels (b) and (d) the bulk state is fixed as the A-phase-core vortex and in panels (c) and (e) as the double-core vortex. The calculations are performed at T= 0 .85 Tcand pressure of 29 bar with ξ= 29 nm for panels (b) and (d), and T= 0 .80 Tc
> and pressure of 20 bar with ξ= 31 nm for panels (c) and (e).

locity vs = ( ℏ/2m3)∇ϕ ∝ 1/r , where m3 is the mass of the 3He atom and ( r, φ, z ) are the cylindrical coordinates centered at the vortex. At the vortex axis the divergence of the superfluid velocity forces the amplitude ∆ B of the B-phase order parameter to zero. The bulk amplitude is recovered at a radius of several Ginzburg-Landau coher-ence lengths ξ.In a multicomponent system the cost of condensation energy from the suppression of the bulk order parameter in the vortex core can be compensated by the appearance of other non-rotating components that fill the core and form superfluid phases distinct from bulk. In 3He-B there are two such non-singular vortex structures which are realized in experiments. The A-phase-core vortex is axially symmetric [23]. Its core is dominated by the A-phase order parameter 

A = ∆ A ˆd( ˆ m + i ˆn) (2) where the unit vector ˆd describes the spin direction of the Cooper pairs and the orthogonal vectors ˆ m and ˆ n define the direction of the orbital angular momentum ˆl = ˆ m ×

ˆn. The double-core vortex has a more complicated order parameter due to broken axial symmetry [15, 21, 24]. The core is split into two subcores connected by a planar-phase wall. In order to join the superfluid phase in the core to the B phase outside in an energetically optimal way, there is bending of the order parameter on approach to the vortex. This means that R in Eq. (1) devi-ates from its bulk value R(ϑ0) in a region known as a soft core [25]. The size of the soft core is controlled by the spin-orbit interaction and is about 10 μm, much larger than the coherence length ξ. In the soft core the rotation matrix R = R(ϑ0)R(θ), where in general 

θ = θφ(r, φ ) ˆ φ + θr (r, φ )ˆ r [26, 27]. The A-phase-core vor-tex has a simpler structure with θr = 0 and θφ depending only on r (Fig. 1a). For a particular vortex (A-phase-core or double-core), 

θφ does not change sign so that sign θφ = p = ±1 is a vortex invariant characterizing its broken inversion sym-metry. Note that p is independent of the circulation di-rection. These two forms of the soft core have the same energy in the bulk. However, for a vortex terminating at a surface this degeneracy is lifted as described below. 

Vortices at the surface —The surface provides two im-portant effects for the structure of the vortex core. First, the surface breaks translation symmetry along the vor-tex. Second, quasiparticle scattering at the surface dis-torts the order parameter near the boundary [28]. We numerically calculate the structure of a vortex terminat-ing at the surface using Ginzburg-Landau theory of su-perfluid 3He (see Refs. [15, 23]), with temperature depen-dent quartic coefficients [21, 22]. This approach neglects large contributions from Fermi-liquid interactions [29], but we expect the results to be qualitatively correct in a wide temperature range. The calculations are performed in a three-dimensional cylindrical box with a radius of 35 ξ, height 75 ξ and a resolution of 0 .5ξ in all directions. At the surface, we apply two types of commonly used boundary conditions [30]: maximum pairbreaking with complete suppression of the order parameter A = 0 and specular conditions with suppression of only the trans-verse component: Aμz = 0, ∇z Aμx = ∇z Aμy = 0. At the opposite side of the box representing the bulk we fix the vortex structure to the one obtained from z-invariant calculations [22]. At the cylindrical boundary, we apply a 180 ◦ rotational symmetry condition to stabilize the vor-tex [22]. The initial state for the energy minimization is formed by extending the bulk configuration through the whole box. The calculations reveal a dramatic change in the vortex core structure near the boundary, Fig. 1. Two types of behavior are found depending on the relative orientation of the vortex soft core p and the inwards pointing surface normal ˆ w. We label a vortex end right-handed if ˆ wz p > 0(as in Fig. 1b,c,e bottom row) and left-handed if ˆ wz p < 0(as in Fig. 1a-e top row and Fig. 1d bottom row). At a left-handed end, the A-phase core expands and forms a ”funnel” shape at the boundary. This struc-ture appears independently of the boundary conditions, temperature and pressure in all our simulations. The A-3phase-core funnel forms spontaneously even if the bulk vortex state is double-core. At a right-handed end, the A-phase core contracts, while the double core is stable. The contraction may lead to different outcomes depend-ing on conditions, but in many cases it results in a transi-tion to the double-core vortex at the boundary, as shown in the maximum pairbreaking case in Fig. 1b. The extent of the funnel at the left-handed end in-creases with surface specularity, being the largest for a fully specular surface. Such a surface favors the A-phase funnel so much that at an originally right-handed end we observe a spontaneous reversal of the soft-core orientation, resulting in a vortex with two left-handed ends (Fig. 1d). Two vortex segments with opposite soft-core orientations are joined via a singular defect (the ”o-vortex” [31]). In the plane of the defect, the soft core disappears completely. The defect is pushed away from the boundary into the bulk until the gradient from the surface funnel becomes negligible. 

Origin of the surface effect —We explain our observa-tions on the basis of the gradient energy for the spin-triplet p-wave pairing 

fgrad = K1∇iA∗ 

> μj

∇iAμj 

+ K2∇iA∗

> μi

∇j Aμj + K3∇iA∗ 

> μj

∇j Aμi . (3) Here the coefficients K1, K2 and K3 are of the same or-der [32]. The first term with K1 is a generalization of the gradient energy in singlet systems. Triplet-specific physics originates from the K2 and K3 terms. These terms connect spatial coordinates (gradient indices) to the orbital directions (second index of the A matrix) [33]. Additionally, these terms mix linear gradients in the or-thogonal directions (when i̸ = j). A well-known con-sequence of this is an induced anisotropy of the order parameter near the surface where, in particular, the A phase with ˆl along the surface normal becomes energeti-cally favored over the B phase [34–36]. Note that this ef-fect does not explain our observations where the A-phase core shrinks and disappears at the right-handed end of the vortex. Surface-induced suppression leading to the gradient of the order parameter along the surface normal ( z direc-tion) allows the reduction of the energy of the system by forming an appropriate gradient in the direction along the surface ( x, y) owing to the terms mixing linear gra-dients in Eq. (3). A vortex core close to the surface in-troduces such gradients. The underlying physical picture is that spin currents surrounding the vortex add to the topological surface spin currents in 3He-B [37–42] result-ing in overall shift of the energy balance and change of the vortex core size. The direction of spin currents in the vortex depends on the soft core orientation and thus the effect is asymmetric between left- and right-handed vor-tex ends. Detailed consideration (see Appendix B in the End Matter) confirms that this asymmetry is consistent       

> FIG. 2. The core structure in a slab as a function of tem-perature at a pressure of 20 bar. The colored bars show the superfluid phases on the axis of the vortex, with colors cor-responding to phases as in Fig. 1. The panels (a), (b) and (c) correspond to semi-infinite, 1500 nm, and 700 nm slabs, respectively. The thick black line is a fit of (1 −T /T c)−1to the height of the A-phase part in the semi-infinite case, with the exact same line overlaid in panels (b) and (c). The inset shows a cross-section of a vortex at 0 .84 Tcin the 700 nm slab, with a squeezed symmetric state at the bottom. Dotted line is the axis along which phase profile is plotted.

with the numerically calculated structures. Gradient mixing appears also on the path between the superfluid phase in the core of a non-singular vortex and the bulk phase. Here the driving gradient is along the radial direction while the energy could be reduced by building a gradient along the vortex. In particular, join-ing the A-phase core and the bulk B phase requires the ˆl

vector in the A phase to be parallel to the AB interface. As calculations show (see Appendix A in the End Mat-ter), the energy of the vortex soft core can be reduced by tilting the ˆl vector, and thus the interface, with respect to the vortex axis with the preferred tilt determined by the orientation p of the soft core. However, this is prevented by translation symmetry along the vortex, as rotating ˆl

would result in a conical shape for the AB interface. At the surface translation symmetry is broken and the core is free to expand (or contract). In the parameter range relevant to 3He-B, this mechanism is found to dominate the observed vortex restructuring. Calculations with no-suppression boundary conditions still reveal formation of the A-phase funnel (see Fig. 4 in End Matter). 

Vortices in a slab —The effect of surfaces becomes espe-cially important in restricted geometry [43–47], when the 4constriction scale becomes comparable to the size of the funnel. We extend our simulations of a bulk vortex ter-minating at a boundary to vortices in thin slabs with the experimentally relevant thicknesses [35, 48–50] of 700 nm and 1500 nm. (The bulk-boundary case is called semi-infinite slab below.) The calculations are perfomed at a pressure of 20 bar and zero field, where the A-phase-core vortex is the energetically favored bulk state only very close to Tc [21, 22]. The radius of the simulation box is increased to 400 ξ in order to account for the effect of the soft core of the vortex. Figure 2 shows the nearest superfluid phase along the axis of the vortex, plotted for different temperatures and slab sizes, with maximum pairbreaking boundary condi-tions. The A phase on the axis signifies the A-phase-core vortex, while planar phase corresponds to the double-core vortex. In the semi-infinite case, Fig. 2(a), the height of the A-phase-core segment increases with temperature as (1 − T /T c)−1. At low temperatures the vortices in the slabs follow this same behavior, as the size of the slabs is large compared to the height of the A-phase fun-nel. At higher temperatures the behavior deviates from the bulk and the A-phase-core segment becomes smaller than in the semi-infinite case. In addition, we observe a distinct core structure at the bottom wall at interme-diate temperatures, where the double-core structure dis-appears and instead an axially symmetric state without A phase appears. Close to Tc the A-phase-core funnel extends through the entire thin slab. In the sweeps of the temperature up and down in the maximum pairbreaking slabs we observe only weak hys-teresis in the height of the A-phase-core funnel, which we assign to the numerical difficulty of minimizing the en-ergy in our multi-scale domain. A strong hysteresis is ob-served in slabs with specular boundary conditions, shown in Fig. 3. As in the semi-infinite calculation with spec-ular boundaries in Fig. 1(d), we observe a spontaneous reversal of the soft core at the bottom surface, resulting in a ”double-funnel” configuration with a singular defect in the middle of the slab. However, at high temperatures there is not enough room for the double-funnel structure to form and a single defect-free funnel extends through the slab. Sweeping the temperature down from this state results in the A-phase core on the bottom (right-handed) wall contracting, until eventually a defect is formed and shifts to the center of the slab, creating the double-funnel state. The transition between the single- and double-funnel states is hysteretic since it requires formation and removal of the singular defect. In a thin slab the experimental signature from the double-funnel state is expected to be distinct from the single A-phase-core funnel. For example, relaxation of the NMR signal on vortices occurs via conversion of magnons to light Higgs quasiparticles in the soft vortex cores [51]. In the double-funnel structure, the soft core disappears in the plane of the defect which is expected 0.55 0.6 0.65 0.7 0.75 0.8 0.85 0.9 0.95 10.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7   

> A-phase-core height h (μm)
> Slab height 1/2 Slab height
> h
> h
> FIG. 3. Core transition in a specular 700 nm slab. The data shows the height of the A-phase-core segment on the top boundary as a function of temperature at a pressure of 20 bar. Arrows indicate the direction of the temperature sweep, which shows strong hysteresis. At high temperatures the A-phase-core funnel covers the whole height of the slab (right inset), while at low temperatures the double-funnel structure appears with a defect centered in the middle (left inset).

to produce a signature in the NMR relaxation. The hys-teresis in this transition could be used as an additional experimental confirmation of the surface-induced core re-structuring. As NMR measurements require the applica-tion of magnetic fields, we have calculated the effect of a 500 G field along the axis of the vortex in a 1500 nm max-imum pairbreaking slab at T = 0 .90 Tc and a pressure of 20 bar. The qualitative features of the funnel structure are unchanged, but the height of the A-phase-core seg-ment shrinks by a factor of 0.58. This is expected as the double-core vortex is known to be favored over the A-phase-core vortex in an axial field [22, 52]. 

Discussion —While the vortex configurations found in this work, like a double-core vortex crowned with an A-phase-core funnel, may be specific to superfluid 3He, the notion of a surface altering the vortex core is more gen-eral. We have identified three distinct mechanisms that can lead to such restructuring: In systems with non-

s-wave pairing, pair breaking at the surface can lead to a shift in energetics favoring a different core phase from that realized in the vortex in the bulk. In a spin-triplet system, topological surface spin currents can in-teract with vortex-induced currents and lead to asym-metric core restructuring depending on the relative ori-entation of the surface normal and the spin anisotropy of the vortex. In vortices with a topological interface be-tween the core and bulk phases, the core can expand or contract when the translational invariance of the vortex line is broken by the surface. Overall the surface-induced vortex restructuring originates from the triplet-pairing-relevant terms in the gradient energy. Unless these terms are suppressed by a symmetry of a particular system, we expect the effect to be general in triplet systems. A remarkable outcome of our calculations is that the 5vortex structure at the surface appears to be independent of the structure in the bulk. For example, on a left-handed vortex end, the A-phase core always appears even at temperatures and pressures where it is unstable in the bulk. If the surface effect is strong enough to reorient the core anisotropy, such as in the double-funnel structure, both ends of the vortex would appear identical. While our calculations consider only the spin currents carried by Cooper pairs and detailed consideration of quasiparticle transport at the surface remains a task for the future, it is possible that vortices could be used as a tool to manipulate topological edge states via the surface-core interaction. We propose that the surface-induced core restructuring could be observed in thin slabs of superfluid 3He, with the hysteresis in the transition between different configu-rations dependent on 4He surface plating to achieve spec-ular boundary conditions. With specular conditions, our calculations predict a transition between the single- and double-funnel configurations, which is absent in bulk. We believe our findings are also important for the interpre-tation of the earlier experiments on the core transition in bulk 3He-B (see Appendix C in the End Matter). Our results stress that in solid state systems it is im-portant to probe the bulk state of the vortices in addition to surface measurements. The complete picture could be used to further disambiguate the specific order parameter structure of these systems. 

Acknowledgments —The work was supported by the Research Council of Finland with grant 370532. We ac-knowledge the computational resources provided by the Aalto Science-IT project.  

> ∗

riku.s.rantanen@aalto.fi  

> †

QTF Centre of Excellence, Aalto University (AALTO), 00076 Espoo, Finland [1] M. Sato and Y. Ando, Topological superconductors: a re-view, Reports on Progress in Physics 80 , 076501 (2017). [2] Y. Tanaka, S. Tamura, and J. Cayao, Theory of Majorana zero modes in unconventional superconductors, Progress of Theoretical and Experimental Physics 2024 , 08C105 (2024). [3] D. Aoki, A. Nakamura, F. Honda, D. Li, Y. Homma, Y. Shimizu, Y. J. Sato, G. Knebel, J.-P. Brison, A. Pour-ret, D. Braithwaite, G. Lapertot, Q. Niu, M. Valiˇ ska, H. Harima, and J. Flouquet, Unconventional supercon-ductivity in heavy fermion UTe 2, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 88 , 043702 (2019). [4] S. Ran, C. Eckberg, Q.-P. Ding, Y. Furukawa, T. Metz, S. R. Saha, I.-L. Liu, M. Zic, H. Kim, J. Paglione, and N. P. Butch, Nearly ferromagnetic spin-triplet supercon-ductivity, Science 365 , 684 (2019). [5] L. Jiao, S. Howard, S. Ran, Z. Wang, J. O. Rodriguez, M. Sigrist, Z. Wang, N. P. Butch, and V. Madhavan, Chiral superconductivity in heavy-fermion metal UTe 2,Nature 579 , 523 (2020). [6] I. M. Hayes, D. S. Wei, T. Metz, J. Zhang, Y. S. Eo, S. Ran, S. R. Saha, J. Collini, N. P. Butch, D. F. Agter-berg, A. Kapitulnik, and J. Paglione, Multicomponent superconducting order parameter in UTe 2, Science 373 ,797 (2021). [7] D. Aoki, J.-P. Brison, J. Flouquet, K. Ishida, G. Knebel, Y. Tokunaga, and Y. Yanase, Unconventional supercon-ductivity in UTe 2, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 34 , 243002 (2022). [8] H. Matsumura, H. Fujibayashi, K. Kinjo, S. Kitagawa, K. Ishida, Y. Tokunaga, H. Sakai, S. Kambe, A. Naka-mura, Y. Shimizu, Y. Homma, D. Li, F. Honda, and D. Aoki, Large reduction in the a-axis Knight shift on UTe 2 with Tc = 2 .1 K, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 92 , 063701 (2023). [9] Q. Gu, J. P. Carroll, S. Wang, S. Ran, C. Broyles, H. Sid-diquee, N. P. Butch, S. R. Saha, J. Paglione, J. C. S. Davis, and X. Liu, Detection of a pair density wave state in UTe 2, Nature 618 , 921 (2023). [10] S. Wang, K. Zhussupbekov, J. P. Carroll, B. Hu, X. Liu, E. Pangburn, A. Crepieux, C. Pepin, C. Broyles, S. Ran, N. P. Butch, S. Saha, J. Paglione, C. Bena, J. C. S. Davis, and Q. Gu, Odd-parity quasiparticle interference in the superconductive surface state of UTe 2, Nat. Phys. 21 ,1555 (2025). [11] N. Sharma, M. Toole, J. McKenzie, F. Cheng, M. M. Bordelon, S. M. Thomas, P. F. S. Rosa, Y.-T. Hsu, and X. Liu, Observation of persistent zero modes and su-perconducting vortex doublets in UTe 2, ACS Nano 19 ,31539 (2025). [12] Z. Yang, F. Zheng, D. Wu, B.-B. Zhang, N. Li, W. Li, C. Zhang, G.-M. Zhang, X. Chen, Y. Chen, and S. Yan, Spectroscopic evidence of symmetry breaking in the su-perconducting vortices of UTe 2, National Science Review 

12 , nwaf267 (2025). [13] R. Yin, Y. Li, Z. Du, D. Yuan, S. Wang, J. Gong, M. Li, Z. Chen, J. Zhang, Y. Wang, Z. Xue, X. Lai, S. Tan, D. Wang, Q.-H. Wang, D.-L. Feng, and Y.-J. Yan, Yin-Yang vortex on UTe 2 (011) surface (2025). [14] M. M. Salomaa and G. E. Volovik, Quantized vortices in superfluid 3He, Rev. Mod. Phys. 59 , 533 (1987). [15] E. V. Thuneberg, Ginzburg-Landau theory of vortices in superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. B 36 , 3583 (1987). [16] U. Parts, J. M. Karim¨ aki, J. H. Koivuniemi, M. Krusius, V. M. H. Ruutu, E. V. Thuneberg, and G. E. Volovik, Phase diagram of vortices in superfluid 3He-A, Phys. Rev. Lett. 75 , 3320 (1995). [17] R. Blaauwgeers, V. B. Eltsov, M. Krusius, J. J. Ruohio, R. Schanen, and G. E. Volovik, Double-quantum vortex in superfluid 3He-A, Nature 404 , 471 (2000). [18] S. Autti, V. V. Dmitriev, J. T. M¨ akinen, A. A. Soldatov, G. E. Volovik, A. N. Yudin, V. V. Zavjalov, and V. B. Eltsov, Observation of half-quantum vortices in topolog-ical superfluid 3He, Phys. Rev. Lett. 117 , 255301 (2016). [19] R. Rantanen, E. Thuneberg, and V. B. Eltsov, Structure of a single-quantum vortex in 3He-A, J. Low Temp. Phys. 

220 , 88 (2025). [20] J. P. Pekola, J. T. Simola, P. J. Hakonen, M. Krusius, O. V. Lounasmaa, K. K. Nummila, G. Mamniashvili, R. E. Packard, and G. E. Volovik, Phase diagram of the first-order vortex-core transition in superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. Lett. 53 , 584 (1984). [21] R. Regan, J. Wiman, and J. Sauls, Vortex phase dia-gram of rotating superfluid 3He-B, Physical Review B 6

101 , 024517 (2020). [22] R. Rantanen and V. Eltsov, Competition of vortex core structures in superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. Res. 6, 043112 (2024). [23] M. M. Salomaa and G. E. Volovik, Symmetry and struc-ture of quantized vortices in superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. B 31 , 203 (1985). [24] R. Rantanen, Triple-core structure of the double-core vortex in superfluid 3He-B, J. Low Temp. Phys. 222 , 59 (2026). [25] Y. Hasegawa, On vortex in superfluid 3He-B, Progress of Theoretical Physics 73 , 1258 (1985). [26] S. M. Laine and E. V. Thuneberg, Calculation of Leggett-Takagi relaxation in vortices of superfluid 3He-B, J. Low Temp. Phys. 183 , 222 (2016). [27] S. M. Laine and E. V. Thuneberg, Spin-wave radiation from vortices in 3He-B, Phys. Rev. B 98 , 174516 (2018). [28] V. Ambegaokar, P. G. deGennes, and D. Rainer, Landau-Ginsburg equations for an anisotropic superfluid, Phys. Rev. A 9, 2676 (1974). [29] M. A. Silaev, E. V. Thuneberg, and M. Fogelstr¨ om, Lif-shitz transition in the double-core vortex in 3He-B, Phys. Rev. Lett. 115 , 235301 (2015). [30] J. J. Wiman and J. A. Sauls, Superfluid phases of 3He in nanoscale channels, Phys. Rev. B 92 , 144515 (2015). [31] T. Ohmi, T. Tsuneto, and T. Fujita, Core structure of vortex line in 3He-B, Progress of Theoretical Physics 70 ,647 (1983). [32] D. Vollhardt and P. W¨ olfle, The Superfluid Phases of Helium 3 (Taylor&Francis, London, 1990). [33] M. Nitta, M. Shifman, and W. Vinci, Non-Abelian quasi-gapless modes localized on mass vortices in superfluid 

> 3

He-B, Phys. Rev. D 87 , 081702 (2013). [34] A. L. Fetter and S. Ullah, Superfluid density and criti-cal current of 3He in confined geometries, J. Low Temp. Phys. 70 , 515 (1988). [35] L. V. Levitin, R. G. Bennett, A. Casey, B. Cowan, J. Saunders, D. Drung, T. Schurig, and J. M. Parpia, Phase diagram of the topological superfluid 3He confined in a nanoscale slab geometry, Science 340 , 841 (2013). [36] L. Saraj, D. Malhotra, A. Muhikira, A. J. Shook, J. P. Davis, and I. Boettcher, Dimensional crossover of super-fluid 3He in a magnetic field, Phys. Rev. B 112 , 174509 (2025). [37] W. Zhang, J. Kurkij¨ arvi, and E. V. Thuneberg, Order parameter of superfluid 3He-B near surfaces, Phys. Rev. B 36 , 1987 (1987). [38] Y. Tsutsumi, M. Ichioka, and K. Machida, Majorana sur-face states of superfluid 3He A and B phases in a slab, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 094510 (2011). [39] Y. Tsutsumi and K. Machida, Edge current due to Majo-rana fermions in superfluid 3He A- and B-phases, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 81 , 074607 (2012). [40] H. Wu and J. A. Sauls, Majorana excitations, spin and mass currents on the surface of topological superfluid 

> 3

He-B, Phys. Rev. B 88 , 184506 (2013). [41] T. Mizushima, Y. Tsutsumi, M. Sato, and K. Machida, Symmetry protected topological superfluid 3He-B, Jour-nal of Physics: Condensed Matter 27 , 113203 (2015). [42] T. Mizushima and K. Machida, Multifaceted properties of Andreev bound states: interplay of symmetry and topology, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Soci-ety A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences 

376 , 20150355 (2018). [43] L. V. Levitin, B. Yager, L. Sumner, B. Cowan, A. J. Casey, J. Saunders, N. Zhelev, R. G. Bennett, and J. M. Parpia, Evidence for a spatially modulated superfluid phase of 3He under confinement, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 ,085301 (2019). [44] P. J. Heikkinen, A. Casey, L. V. Levitin, X. Rojas, A. Vorontsov, P. Sharma, N. Zhelev, J. M. Parpia, and J. Saunders, Fragility of surface states in topological su-perfluid 3He, Nat Commun 12 , 1574 (2021). [45] A. J. Shook, V. Vadakkumbatt, P. Senarath Yapa, C. Doolin, R. Boyack, P. H. Kim, G. G. Popowich, F. Souris, H. Christani, J. Maciejko, and J. P. Davis, Stabilized pair density wave via nanoscale confinement of superfluid 3He, Phys. Rev. Lett. 124 , 015301 (2020). [46] P. J. Heikkinen, N. Eng, L. V. Levitin, X. Rojas, A. Singh, S. Autti, R. P. Haley, M. Hindmarsh, D. E. Zmeev, J. M. Parpia, A. Casey, and J. Saunders, Nanoflu-idic platform for studying the first-order phase transi-tions in superfluid helium-3, J. Low Temp. Phys. 215 ,477 (2024). [47] P. J. Heikkinen, L. V. Levitin, X. Rojas, A. Singh, N. Eng, A. Casey, J. Saunders, A. Vorontsov, N. Zhelev, A. T. Sebastian, and J. M. Parpia, Chiral superfluid helium-3 in the quasi-two-dimensional limit, Phys. Rev. Lett. 134 , 136001 (2025). [48] P. Zheng, W. G. Jiang, C. S. Barquist, Y. Lee, and H. B. Chan, Anomalous damping of a microelectrome-chanical oscillator in superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

117 , 195301 (2016). [49] W. G. Jiang, C. S. Barquist, K. Gunther, Y. Lee, and H. B. Chan, Superfluid 3He-B surface states in a confined geometry probed by a microelectromechanical oscillator, Phys. Rev. B 108 , 024508 (2023). [50] A. J. Shook, E. Varga, I. Boettcher, and J. P. Davis, Surface state dissipation in confined 3He-A, Phys. Rev. Lett. 132 , 156001 (2024). [51] V. V. Zavjalov, S. Autti, V. B. Eltsov, P. J. Heikkinen, and G. E. Volovik, Light Higgs channel of the resonant decay of magnon condensate in superfluid 3He-B, Nat Commun 7, 10294 (2016). [52] K. Kasamatsu, R. Mizuno, T. Ohmi, and M. Nakahara, Effects of a magnetic field on vortex states in superfluid 

> 3

He-B, Phys. Rev. B 99 , 104513 (2019). [53] M. C. Cross, Calculation of surface energies in A and B phases of 3He, in Quantum Fluids and Solids , edited by S. B. Trickey, E. D. Adams, and J. W. Dufty (Springer US, Boston, MA, 1977) pp. 183–194. [54] E. V. Thuneberg, A-B interface of superfluid 3He in a magnetic field, Phys. Rev. B 44 , 9685 (1991). [55] N. Schopohl, Spatial dependence of the order parameter of superfluid 3He at the A-B phase boundary, Phys. Rev. Lett. 58 , 1664 (1987). [56] P. J. Hakonen, M. Krusius, M. M. Salomaa, J. T. Simola, Y. M. Bunkov, V. P. Mineev, and G. E. Volovik, Magnetic vortices in rotating superfluid 3He-B, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

51 , 1362 (1983). [57] Y. Kondo, J. S. Korhonen, M. Krusius, V. V. Dmitriev, Y. M. Mukharsky, E. B. Sonin, and G. E. Volovik, Direct observation of the nonaxisymmetric vortex in superfluid 

> 3

He-B, Phys. Rev. Lett. 67 , 81 (1991). [58] T. D. C. Bevan, A. J. Manninen, J. B. Cook, H. Alles, J. R. Hook, and H. E. Hall, Vortex mutual friction in superfluid 3He, J. Low Temp. Phys. 109 , 423 (1997). 7

> END MATTER

Appendix A: Analytical model —A simple picture of the A-phase-core vortex is that the vortex core consists of the A phase (2) surrounded by the B phase (1) outside. Here we consider a model where the interface between the two phases is abrupt. The minimal energy of the AB interface is achieved by the condition [53, 54] ˆd( ˆ m + i ˆn) · ˆs = eiϕ R · ˆs, (4) where ˆ s is the normal vector of the interface (Fig. 4). This guarantees that the one orbital component of A that is common to both phases is in the direction of ˆ s and undergoes minimal change of amplitude (from ∆ A to ∆ B)and no change of phase at the interface. Equation (4) implies that ˆl has to be in the plane of the interface, ˆl · ˆs = 0. In order to satisfy Eq. (4), we have to consider the bending of the order parameters in the two phases. We use cylindrical coordinates ( r, φ, z ). It is convenient to represent ˆd by an orbital-space vector ˆdo so that ˆd =

R(ϑ0) ˆdo. We write the bending of the order parameters (1) and (2) assuming axial symmetry 

θ = θ ˆφ, ˆdo = σd(ˆ r sin β + ˆ z cos β),

ˆl = σl(ˆ r sin α + ˆ z cos α),

ˆm + i ˆn = R(α ˆφ)( ˆ x + iσ l ˆy). (5) Outside the soft core θ → 0. Note that ˆl is unique at the vortex axis only for sin α = 0. We limit to the case 

α(r = 0) = 0 by taking into account the case ˆl = − ˆz by the sign factor σl = ±1 being −1. Similarly for ˆdo we limit to β(r = 0) = 0 by using the sign factor σd = ±1. In a bulk vortex the angles θ, β, and α are functions of 

r, but the structure close to a surface can be included allowing them to depend also on z.We now apply the boundary condition (4). The re-quirement ˆl · ˆs = 0 fixes the interface normal ˆs =ˆr cos αb − ˆz sin αb, where the subindex b refers to the location at the interface. In addition, the condition (4) can only be satisfied if the phase ϕ = σlφ. This says that the circulation of the vortex is correlated with the direc-tion of ˆl in the core: vortex with a positive circulation has ˆl up and a vortex with a negative circulation has ˆl

down. We are left with the condition ˆdob = R(θb ˆφ) · ˆs or, equivalently, 

θb − βb = −σd

π

2 − αb, (6) which is illustrated in Fig. 4. In a bulk vortex αb = 0 due to translational symmetry along z and we want to minimize the bending, that is |θb| and |βb|. We see that for minimal energy θb > 0 and βb < 0 for σd = −1 and they have opposite signs for σd = +1. Thus p in the main text equals −σd. The two forms are obtained from each other by inversion, or more precisely, by reflection in the         

> FIG. 4. Comparison of simulated funnel profiles (circles) to the rb(z) predicted by the model (dashed lines). The sim-ulated data for maximum pairbreaking and specular bound-aries corresponds to the states in Fig. 1(b) and (d), respec-tively, and for the state with no suppression the boundary conditions were removed and the only effect arises from the abrupt end of the simulation domain. The funnel profiles are determined by calculating the order parameter distance to the bulk phase (see Appendix C of Ref. [22]) and taking the point where the distance crosses 0 .1. The bulk phase is defined as the order parameter state furthest from the vortex axis, sep-arately for each z. The model curves are exactly the same for all three cases, shifted vertically so that the model and the data coincide at z=−10 ξ.No fitting parameters are used otherwise.

x-y plane combined with the corresponding reflection in spin space [23]. Consider now the vortex ending on a surface, where αb

can be non-zero. We see from Eq. (6) that a positive αb

reduces the bending proportional to θb and −βb in case of p = −σd = +1. In the extreme case αb = π/ 2, there would be no bending of θ and β. Thus such a p = +1 vortex will expand at the top surface and contract at the bottom surface. The case is the opposite for p = −σd =

−1. We now make the model quantitative be evaluating the vortex energy on the basis of the Ginzburg-Landau gradient energy (3). In case of αb = 0 we get the energy per vortex length 2 πU with 

U (rb, θ b, β b) = 3 K∆2Bθ2b + 4 K∆2Aβ2b

+5 K∆2B ln Rrb

+ σr b + 12 (f Bc − f Ac )r2b. (7) Here the first and second terms are the bending energies of θ(r) and β(r), respectively. They are evaluated to leading order in the bending angles. The third term is the kinetic energy of superflow around the vortex, where R is a cut-off radius. The fourth term is the surface energy of the AB interface, where σ ≈ 0.9fcξ is the surface tension [54, 55]. The last term comes from the difference of the condensation energies of the A and B phases, f Ac and 

f Bc , respectively. We use f Ac /f Bc = 0 .95 in the estimates 8below. Minimizing Eq. (7) with respect to θb and βb taking into account Eq. (6) gives 

θb = c(p π 

> 2

− αb)1 + c , βb = − p π 

> 2

− αb

1 + c , (8) where c = 2 f Ac /f Bc . We get θb ≈ p π 

> 3

and βb ≈ − p π 

> 6

at 

αb = 0. Further minimization with respect to rb gives the equilibrium radius rb0 = 3 .1ξ, which agrees with the numerical solution of the GL equations [15]. In order to study the flaring out of the interface, we form an energy functional to determine rb(z). For ˆl to stay in the plane of the interface we have r′ 

> b

≡ dr b/dz =tan αb ≈ αb. We substitute αb = r′ 

> b

to Eq. (8). To the energies in Eq. (7) we need to add the bending energy of ˆl, Uα = 2 K∆2Aα2b = 2 K∆2Ar′2b in the leading order. The AB interface energy has to be generalized to 

σr b

p1 + tan 2 αb ≈ σr b(1 + 12 r′2b ). (9) We neglect gradients in the z direction. For total vor-tex energy, the contributions above have to be integrated over z,

F

2π =

Z

dz 



− 3πpc 

1 + c K∆2Br′ 

> b

+ M (rb)r′2b + U (rb) − U (rb0 )



,

(10) where 

M (rb) = 3c

1 + c K∆2B + 2 K∆2A + 12 σr b,U (rb) = 5 K∆2B ln Rrb

+ σr b + 12 (f Bc − f Ac )r2b. (11) Because of the r′ 

> b

linear term in Eq. (10), the bulk vor-tex structure is unstable near walls. Minimization of Eq. (10) gives an equation M (rb)r′2b − U (rb) = constant, from which rb(z) is solved numerically. The result is in good agreement with the Ginzburg-Landau simulations, see Fig. 4. 

Appendix B: Surface gradient contribution —At the surface of superfluid 3He-B, the order parameter is anisotropically suppressed according to the boundary conditions. Consider a surface oriented perpendicular to the z direction, with an order parameter 

A = R

∆∥(z) 0 00 ∆∥(z) 00 0 ∆⊥(z)

 (12) where R is the B-phase rotation matrix, assumed to be uniform in z, and ∆ ∥ and ∆ ⊥ are the z dependent ampli-tudes parallel and perpendicular to the wall, respectively. The presence of the surface suppression introduces ad-ditional energy contributions to the bending energy of 

θ(r) in Eq. (7) due to the mixing of linear gradients in the K2 and K3 terms of Eq. (3). The additional terms have the form 

fmix = ( K2 + K3)∆ ∥

∂∆⊥

∂z Riz 

 ∂R ix 

∂x + ∂R iy 

∂y 



(13) Using the model of the vortex in Eq. (5), the energy per vortex length is 

Umix = 16 K∆∥

∂∆⊥

∂z θ3brb. (14) Approximating ∆ ∥ ≈ ∆B and ∂∆⊥/∂z ≈ ˆwz ∆B/ξ (with the sign determined by the surface normal) and using the value of θb ≈ p π 

> 3

from Eq. (8) we get 

Umix = ˆwz pπ 3

162 K∆B

rb

ξ (15) Depending on the orientation of the surface normal ( ˆ wz )and the vortex soft core ( p) the core radius rb increases or decreases. This contribution is in the same direction as the effect of flaring out the interface. Minimization of the total energy from Eqs. (7) and (15) with respect to rb for p = +1 gives rb ≈ 3.5ξ at the top wall and 

rb ≈ 2.8ξ at the bottom wall. Note that the surface term is only effective in the suppression layer extending a few coherence lengths from the boundary. 

Appendix C: Implications for the vortex-core transition in bulk 3He —Many features of the transition between A-phase-core and double-core vortices observed in experi-ments [20, 56–58] are still lacking encompassing expla-nation. Based on calculations in the GL region [15] it was interpreted as a thermodynamic transition, while re-cently it was suggested that the transition rather repre-sents the end of the metastability region of the A-phase-core vortex [21, 22]. Detailed implications of our findings for those interpre-tations should be considered elsewhere. Here we list a few observations: First, both core types being present at dif-ferent ends of a vortex (Fig. 1b and c) implies that the possible nucleation barrier masking the thermodynamic transition is small. Second, the A-phase funnel affects the energy balance of the vortices and thus could provide a reason for the difference in the vortex core transition observed with different vortex lengths [20, 58]. Third, in the case that the double-funnel structure (Fig. 1d) would be present, it would increase the metastability of the A-phase-core vortex.