Title: Excitations across the equilibrium and photoinduced `hidden' states of magnetoresistive manganites

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.00991v1

Published Time: Thu, 02 Apr 2026 01:11:16 GMT

Number of Pages: 15

Markdown Content:
# Excitations across the equilibrium and photoinduced ‘hidden’ states of magnetoresistive manganites 

Shiyu Fan, 1, ∗ Feng Jin, 2, 3 Taehun Kim, 1 Umesh Kumar, 4 Zixun Zhang, 2 Vivek Bhartiya, 1 Jiemin Li, 1 Brandon Yalin, 1 Yanhong Gu, 1 Mingqiang Gu, 5 Wen Hu, 1 Claudio Mazzoli, 1 G. Lawrence Carr, 1 Osor S. Bariˇ si´ c, 6

Andrey S. Mishchenko, 6, 7 Valentina Bisogni, 1 Sobhit Singh, 8, 9 Wenbin Wu, 2, 10, 11 and Jonathan Pelliciari 1, †

> 1

National Synchrotron Light Source II, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY 11973, USA. 

> 2

Anhui Key Laboratory of Condensed Matter at Extreme Conditions, High Magnetic Field Laboratory, and Hefei National Research Center for Physical Sciences at the Microscale, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei 230026, China 

> 3

School of Physics, Hefei University of Technology, Hefei, Anhui 230009, China 

> 4

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, USA 

> 5

Department of Physics, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen 518055, China 

> 6

Department for Research of Materials under Extreme Conditions, Institute of Physics, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia 

> 7

RIKEN Center for Emergent Matter Science (CEMS) 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198 Japan 

> 8

Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA 

> 9

Materials Science Program, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14627, USA 

> 10

Institute of Physical Science and Information Technology, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, China 

> 11

Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China 

“Hidden” phases, generated using ultrafast lasers pulses (few hundreds femtoseconds), with dis-tinct properties than at the thermodynamic equilibrium, are appealing for technologies as they can be long-lived, with a lifetime of hours or weeks, and reversible with temperature sweeping or extra pulses. In this regard, La 2/3Ca 1/3MnO 3 (LCMO) stands out due to its tunability through epitaxial strain, which can drive the bulk ferromagnetic metal (FMM) into an antiferromagnetic insulator (AFI), and its susceptibility to photo-induced transitions. Indeed, AFI LCMO displays a long-lived photo-induced transition into a putative ‘hidden’ phase whose exact nature and excitations are still largely unknown. Here, we combine ultrafast photo-excitation in the near infrared with in-situ 

transport, x-ray absorption (XAS), and Resonant Inelastic X-ray Scattering (RIXS) to investigate the excitations (polarons, phonons, and orbital) of the photo-excited phase of LCMO and contrast them with the thermodynamic phases achieved through strain and temperature. In the thermo-dynamic regime, we establish the correlation between polarons and transport placing them in the ‘strong coupling’ regime of the Holstein model. Upon photo-excitation of LCMO - AFI, we uncover a long-lived phase characterized by the softening of the polaron excitations, the partial suppression of the Jahn-Teller distortion, and nearly unchanged phonons, showing the emergence of a photo-excited state absent in the equilibrium phase diagram. Finally, by varying temperature, epitaxial strain, and photo-excitation fluence, we construct a polaron phase diagram and identify the key spectroscopic signatures of each phase. Our laser-RIXS approach establishes a versatile platform for exploring photo-induced ‘hidden’ phases in quantum materials in non-stroboscopic conditions. 

INTRODUCTION 

Ultrafast laser pulses provide a powerful route to co-herently excite materials into a non-equilibrium state, en-abling phenomena such as metal-to-insulator transitions, multiferroicity, and enhanced superconductivity [1–10]. While most of these excited states are transient, last-ing only few femto- to picoseconds [11–13], long-lived phases can be created if the ultrafast laser pulse provides sufficient energy to cross/modify the free-energy barrier, driving the system into a metastable local minimum in the free energy landscape [4, 5, 14, 15]. These ‘hidden’ phases are thermodynamically inaccessible and can per-sist for hours or longer due to the energy barrier that prevents relaxation to the ground state [2, 4, 5, 16]. Im-  

> ∗sfan1@bnl.gov
> †pelliciari@bnl.gov

portantly, such states can often be erased and recovered using additional external stimuli, such as temperature, magnetic field, or laser pulses at different wavelengths, and are therefore amenable for device applications [4, 5]. Indeed, the ability to switch between pristine and photo-induced states on demand holds strong potential for ul-trafast memory, logic, and quantum information appli-cations based on dynamic control of material properties [17]. Quantum materials are susceptible to the emergence of photo-induced long-lived phases due to the interplay of the spin, lattice, charge, and orbital degrees of free-dom and proximity of multiple ground states and order parameters [6, 18–20]. One exemplar case is the colossal magnetoresistive LCMO, where multiple phases compete due to their close energy scales and intertwined degrees of freedom, offering the opportunity to switch them through static or dynamic perturbations [1, 4, 21, 22]. Bulk LCMO displays a low-temperature FMM phase 

> arXiv:2604.00991v1 [cond-mat.str-el] 1 Apr 2026

2that morphs into a paramagnetic insulating (PMI) phase at room temperature. Epitaxial tensile strain along the 

b axis induces an AFI phase at low temperature that transitions into the same PMI of the bulk phase above a critical temperature [21, 22]. Key ingredients to the understanding of the electronic transport in these phases are the Jahn-Teller distortion, the formation of polarons, and electron-phonon coupling [23–27]. Moreover, the tendency of LCMO toward phase transitions is high-lighted by its switching through photo-excitation leading the AFI phase into a long-lived non-ergodic phase with distinct electronic and magnetic properties [1, 4]. Pre-vious studies have shown that ultrafast excitation can melt the AFI phase and stabilize the FMM state, of-ten interpreted as a collapse of charge/orbital ordering [1, 4, 5, 11]. While the macroscopic switching of resis-tance and magnetism has been reported in photo-excited epitaxially strained LCMO films [1, 4], the main spectral features and therefore the microscopic character of the photo-induced state still remain poorly investigated. RIXS is a photon-in, photon-out scattering technique with sensitivity to all the electronic degrees of freedom (spin, charge, orbital, and their coupling to the lattice) [7, 16, 28]. In recent years, progress on the energy res-olution and the coupling with other in-situ stimuli led to significant advances in the field of condensed matter physics [16, 29]. One of the latest development has been the coupling of RIXS with lasers enabling the study of photo-induced phenomena [7, 16, 30, 31]. While a signif-icant effort has been put into the development of time-resolved schemes [7, 30, 31], no report are available at this time on the study of photo-induced transition in non-stroboscopic mode targeting metastable phases. In this work, we combined near infrared femtosecond laser (1030 nm, 1.2 eV, 250 fs) switching with in-situ 

transport, x-ray absorption (XAS), and RIXS to study the long-lived transition of LCMO. This multi-pronged approach enables simultaneous access to the transport, the Jahn-Teller distortion, low-energy collective modes, and higher-energy orbital excitations in photo-excited phases. Our central result is that the 1.2 eV photo-excitation on the AFI phase reshapes the Jahn-Teller dis-tortion and polaronic excitations, inducing a long-lived ‘hidden’ phase microscopically distinct from the equilib-rium AFI, FMM, and PMI phases. This state is char-acterized by (i) a metastable reduction of the resistiv-ity; (ii) partial suppression of the Jahn-Teller distortion; 

(iii) a substantial softening of the polaronic excitation; and (iv) almost unchanged Jahn-Teller-active phonons. These observations coherently point to a partially melted Jahn-Teller polaronic state rather than a direct photo-induced transition to the metallic FMM state. This evidence is complemented by data collected by tuning temperature, strain, and excitation fluence, which enable us to construct a manganite polaronic phase di-agram and identify an exponential correlation between the polaron excitations and electrical resistivity. This reveals that the polaron excitations of LCMO - FMM, AFI, PMI, and photo-induced phase - consistently fall within the strongly-coupled Holstein regime. Our results highlight the polaron excitations as a microscopic param-eter for tuning electric transport. Within this framework, the photo-induced phase occupies a non-equilibrium re-gion of the polaronic phase diagram that can not be accessed along the equilibrium axes of temperature or strain. More generally, our work proves a novel capabil-ity to investigate long-lived photo-induced phases in cor-related materials using a high-end scattering technique like RIXS. This manuscript is divided in the following sections. First, we characterize the electrical transport of LCMO under ultrafast laser switching, and identify a long-lived insulating metastable phase stabilized after photo-excitation (Sec. I and II). We then compare the mi-croscopic Jahn-Teller distortions, as well as the polaron and phonon signatures, of this photo-induced phase with those of the equilibrium FMM, AFI, and PMI phases (Sec. III-VI). In these sections, we extract the polaron energies across the equilibrium and photo-induced phases and analyze their relation to the electrical resistivity within a strongly-coupled Holstein framework, and es-tablish how the polaronic renormalization controls trans-port (Sec. VII). Afterwards, we discuss that the long-lived photo-induced state corresponds to a distinct Jahn-Teller-polaronic configuration that cannot be reached by temperature or strain alone, and we place these results in the broader context of metastable phases in manganites (Discussion section). Finally, we summarize the main results in the final Summary section. 

> Section I: Evolution of electric transport in LCMO driven by ultrafast photo-excitation

LCMO thin films in the FMM and AFI phases were grown on NdGaO 3 (NGO) substrates. The films thick-nesses are 24 nm. The FMM and AFI phases are charac-terized by resistivity and magnetization measurements (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S1). The FMM film is weakly strained and nearly identical to the bulk. The AFI phase is achieved through annealing and exhibits ∼ 0.8% epitaxial tensile strain along the b-axis [21]. The penetration depth of the x-ray and 1030 nm femtosecond laser exceed the film thickness [20, 33], en-suring that the entire probed volume is fully excited by the laser [Fig. 1(a)]. To investigate the photo-induced state, we measured the resistance of an LCMO-AFI/NGO (100) film under near infrared (1030 nm, 250 fs) laser excitation by de-positing electrodes on the film surface [Fig. 1(b)]. Fig-ure 1(c) shows the relative resistance change over time following laser exposure. The laser was operated at a 3σπ 

> 1030 nm ultrafast laser pulse
> Incident x-ray
> Photo-induced `hidden' phase Scattered x-ray electrodes (a) (c) (d)

ki

ks 

> (b)
> 12laser spot temperature sensor LCMO/NGO (100) 010 20 30 −14 −12 −10 −8−6−4−20LCMO/NGO (100) LCMO/NGO (001)

Fluence ( mJ /cm 2 )ΔR/R initial  (%) 0510 15 20 25 30 −50 −40 −30 −20 −10 0time (mins) initial Laser on ΔR/R initial  (%) metastable phase 34.9 mJ/cm 2

FIG. 1. (a) Schematic view of the in-situ laser-transport-RIXS experimental setup. The laser pulses are 250 fs and 1030 nm center wavelength. The wave-vector of the incident x-ray ( ki) is perpendicular to the ultrafast laser beam. σ and π refer to the polarization of the incident x-ray as perpendicular or parallel to the scattering plane, respectively. All RIXS spectra are taken with the σ-polarization. The laser polarization is linearly horizontal, parallel to the scattering plane defined by ki

and ks. The laser beam has a ∼ 40 degrees incident angle with respect to the film surface. The RIXS data are collected after photo-excitation in a ‘non-stroboscopic’ manner. (b) Sample holder for the laser-transport-RIXS measurement. The top and bottom films correspond to the AFI LCMO/NGO (100) and LCMO/NGO (001), respectively. A temperature sensor is mounted next to the films to monitor temperature change upon laser irradiation. On the right there is a close-up view of the electrodes deposited on the LCMO/NGO (100) film. The laser spot size is about 120 μm and the distance between electrodes is 500 μm. (c) Relative resistance change with respect to the resistance of the initial AFI state ( Rinitial ) at different recovering times. ∆ R is defined as the resistance difference between the photo-induced and the initial AFI phase. (d) ∆ R/Rinitial as a function of laser fluence of the LCMO - AFI (100) and LCMO - AFI (001) films. 

repetition rate of 1 kHz with a maximum fluence of 34.9 mJ/cm 2 for 30 seconds. Upon illumination, the resis-tance changes by approximately -47% compared to the pristine state, suggesting that photo-excitation drives the system toward a more conductive state. After the laser is turned off, the resistance partially recovers but stabilizes at a value ∼ 7-8% lower than the initial state [Fig. 1(c)]. Notably, this persistent state remains unchanged even 30 minutes after the laser is turned off, confirming the for-mation of a long-lived metastable phase whose resistance is distinct from the equilibrium AFI and FMM phases. Heating effects can be ruled out, as all resistance values are measured long after laser exposure. Moreover, given that the laser-irradiated area spans only about one-fourth of the electrode spacing [Fig. 1(b)], the actual change in resistivity would be larger than what is reflected in the measured resistance. These results demonstrate that although photo-excitation at 1030 nm moderately in-creases conductivity, the photo-induced metastable state still remains within a non-metallic regime. For compar-ison, we also measured the laser-induced transport in another LCMO/NGO(001) film. A qualitatively similar photo-induced insulating metastable state is observed as well, although the absolute resistance is lower than in LCMO/NGO(100) due to the reduced epitaxial strain [Fig. 1(d)]. In our conditions, the photo-induced metastable phase appears at a laser fluence of ≈ 34.9 mJ/cm 2, which dif-fers from the reported fluence threshold at around 8 -12 mJ/cm 2 (800 nm) [1, 4, 5]. While we cannot pin-point the source of this discrepancy to a single factor, it is possible that it arises from a combination of differ-ences in photo-excitation wavelength, laser pulse dura-tion, and laser pumping protocol (pulse-picked vs. quasi-4continuous 1 kHz excitation within a 30-second window) which will be discussed in later sections. 

> Section II: Ultrafast photo-excitation mechanism in LCMO

To obtain a more complete view of the multiplet electronic structure of LCMO and better understand the laser-pumping mechanism, we perform RIXS on the LCMO - AFI film at the Mn L3 edge, which is highly sen-sitive to Mn multiplets and orbital excitations [28, 34]. Figure 2(a) showcases the RIXS spectra of the LCMO -AFI (100) film at 100 K. We can identify a broad se-ries of peaks ascribable to the multiplets manifold of Mn ions. The peak at 1200 meV correspond to multi-plets from Mn 3+ dd excitations [34] which are localized as they are connected to the electronic configuration of Mn and its local geometry. This localization is further evidenced from the RIXS intensity map at the Mn L3

edge, where the 1200 meV excitation shows Raman-like behavior as the incident x-ray energy increases (see Sup-plementary Information [32], Section III). The peak at 1600 meV is attributed to an intersite Mn 3+ to Mn 4+ 

charge transfer excitation, consistent with optical spec-troscopy [4]. The peak below 1 eV can be assigned to a polaron excitation which will be discussed later together with O-K edge RIXS data. Our laser wavelength at 1030 nm (1.2 eV) lies well within the energy window of the Mn eg manifold, matching the energy of the Jahn-Teller-active Mn 3+ d3z2−r2 → dx2−y2 on-site excitation [34] and overlapping with the lower edge of the Mn 3+ → Mn 4+ 

intersite charge-transfer channel [Fig. 2(b)]. While the on-site transition is typically dipole-forbidden in optical absorption, it becomes active under symmetry-breaking conditions such as O 2 p - Mn 3 d orbital hybridization or local lattice distortions. Consequently, both excitation pathways may contribute to the laser-induced transitions within the Mn eg manifold [Fig. 2(b)]. 

> Section III: Jahn-Teller effects in the FMM, AFI, and photo-induced phases

The transport properties of LCMO are affected by the Jahn-Teller distortion, specifically the Q2 mode, where the Mn-O bond length in the basal-plane exhibits out-of-phase displacement [Fig. 2(b)] [1, 35]. We identify the Jahn-Teller effects of the FMM, AFI, and photo-induced phases of LCMO/NGO (100) through their XAS responses. Figure 3(a) compares XAS at the O-K edge of the FMM and AFI phases at 100 K. A pre-edge peak at 

≈ 530 eV is associated to the hybridization between the Mn 3 d and O 2 p orbitals [36, 37]. In the FMM phase, we observe a doublet splitting of the Mn-O hybridized peak while only one broad feature is present in the AFI phase. Since XAS is primarily related to the unoccupied density of states (DOS), we can qualitatively discern the XAS lineshape from ab initio calculations of the DOS (Sup-plementary Fig. 13). In the FMM phase, the Fermi level is mainly occupied by spin-up Mn e g itinerant electrons [Fig. 3(d)]. This is due to a weak Jahn-Teller distortion and gives rise to the half-metallic nature of the FMM phase. The Mn t 2g spin-down states are located in the higher conduction band and partially overlaps with the eg states [Fig. 3(e)]. Their energy is higher than the Mn e g spin-up states as the on-site Coulomb energy U

is stronger than the crystal field splitting 10 Dq . Conse-quently, in the FMM phase, the two well-defined peaks in XAS are associated with the Mn e g spin-up and t 2g

spin-down [Fig. 3(a)]. In the AFI phase, epitaxial tensile strain enhances the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion, splitting the broad Mn e g states at the Fermi level and opening up a bandgap. This distortion renormalizes the DOS and leads to a significant overlap of the Mn e g and Mn t 2g

levels [Fig. 3(e)]. As a result, it gives rise to a broad Mn 3d manifolds [Fig. 3(e)]. Therefore, the broadening of the XAS linewidth and the absence of the e g - t 2g doublet, as shown in Fig. 3(a), are distinctive signatures of the strong Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion in the AFI phase. Figure 3(b) presents the XAS of the AFI phase be-fore and after photo-excitation. The sample was excited using a 1030 nm (1.2 eV) femtosecond laser with a 1 kHz repetition rate, 250 fs pulse duration, and a fluence of 34.9 mJ/cm 2 for 30 seconds - identical to the condi-tions for the laser-transport measurements. The ultrafast laser is off during the XAS measurement. The spectral weight of the XAS between 529 and 530 eV is noticeably suppressed, whereas it is nearly unaffected around 530 eV. The largest spectral weight suppression is at the e g

peak [ ≈529.5 eV shown in Fig. 3(a)], indicating that the photo-excitation mainly renormalizes the Mn e g states while barely affecting the Mn t 2g conduction bands [Fig. 3(d,e)]. This increases the e g - t 2g splitting. Indeed, the XAS difference [purple curve in Fig. 3(b)] between the photo-induced and AFI phases closely resembles the lineshape of the XAS difference plot shown in Fig. 3(a). However, the overall effects are weaker compared to the difference between the AFI and FMM phases achieved through epitaxial strain engineering. This indicates that the photo-excitation partially suppresses the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion as schematized in Fig. 2(b). Figure 3(c) compares the XAS of the AFI (100 K) and PMI phases (320 K). The XAS of the PMI phase is broader than the AFI as evident by the increasing spec-tral weight below 529.5 eV. The XAS difference curve displays a distinct lineshape compared to Fig. 3(a,b). Above 529.5 eV where the e g and t 2g peaks are ob-served [Fig. 3(a)], the XAS is almost identical for the two phases. The different lineshapes of the XAS differ-ence for the phases at low and high temperatures indicate that the photo-induced and PMI phases are distinct. 5MnO 6

> d3z  2 -r  2

# Energy loss (meV) RIXS at the Mn L 3 edge 

Zhang et. al . 2016 our work (b) 1030 nm 800 nm 

0 400 800 1200 1600 2000 2400 Intensity (Arb. Units) (a) Jahn-Teller distorted Mn 3+ 

E F

## 1s 

## ki

incident x-ray scattered x-ray 

E JT k f

Mn e g

Mn e g             

> FIG. 2. (a) RIXS spectrum of the AFI phase of LCMO/NGO (100) at the Mn L3edge ( Ei= 643.2 eV). We indicate the pump photon energies used here (1030 nm, 1.2 eV) and in Refs. 1, 4 (800 nm, 1.55 eV). (b) Schematic view of a possible photo-excitation mechanism. While the laser wavelength is on resonance to the Mn 3+ on-site d-dexcitation, the 1.2 - 1.6 eV energy window also overlaps with the Mn 3+ →Mn 4+ intersite charge-transfer (CT) channel.
> Section IV: Strain, photo-excitation, and temperature effects on polaron excitations

Figure 4(a) shows the O-K edge RIXS of the FMM phase as a function of energy-loss and incident x-ray en-ergy. At this edge, RIXS probes the excitations of the Mn-3 d manifolds owing to the strong hybridization be-tween the O-2 p and Mn-3 d bands [Fig. 3(d,e)] [39, 40]. The RIXS map exhibits three main features: a Raman-like phonon around 60 meV, a pronounced peak at ∼ 500 meV, and weaker fluorescence-like features above 1 eV. The high-energy features above 1 eV are better observed at the t 2g resonance [Fig. 4(b)], and are consistent with the excitations of the strongly hybridized Mn 3 d - O 2 p

manifold, with mixed on-site dd - and intersite charge-transfer-like character, consistent with Mn L3-edge RIXS and optical conductivity measurements [41–43]. The ∼

500 meV mode matches with a polaron response reported in the mid-infrared (MIR) optical studies on LCMO [24, 42, 44] and was also observed in La 1.2Sr 1.8Mn 2O7

[40]. We attribute this feature to the excitation of local-ized carriers interacting with lattice vibrations - a hall-mark of polarons induced by strong electron-phonon cou-pling [44–46]. In our RIXS spectra, the “polaron” refers to an excitation arising from the dynamic charge sus-ceptibility associated with locally trapped carriers. The corresponding polaron energy represents an effective en-ergy scale to excite such a trapped carrier into the Mn 3+ 

eg conduction manifold, and is therefore influenced by the Jahn-Teller distortion and electron-phonon coupling. The resonant enhancement of both phonon and polaron intensity at the Mn e g site [Fig. 4(b)] highlights the dom-inant role of Mn e g electrons in mediating the electron-phonon interaction. Additionally, weak peaks between 100 - 400 meV are observed at the e g resonance and are ascribed to higher-order phonon harmonics [40]. Figure 4(c) displays a closer view of the RIXS spec-tra of the FMM and AFI phases at the Mn e g resonance (529.4 eV). A spectral weight shift from high-to-low en-ergy loss is uncovered across the epitaxial strain-induced insulator-to-metal transition (IMT). The polaron of the FMM phase is more intense and centered at ≈ 450 meV whereas that of the AFI phase is located at ≈ 950 meV. To quantify the key features of these polarons we fit the RIXS data. Since the polaron lineshape is highly asym-metric for the FMM phase, we fit the RIXS spectra with an antisymmetric Lorentz function and use the same ap-proach for the AFI [40]. The detailed fitting procedure is discussed in the Supplementary Information [32]. Figure 4(d) showcases RIXS spectra of the AFI phase before and after photo-excitation. We tune the incident x-ray energy to the e g resonance where the XAS shows the largest difference [Fig. 3(b)]. After photo-excitation, the polaron energy shifts from ≈ 960 meV to 790 meV. While the photo-induced spectral weight redistribution resembles that observed in the epitaxial strain-driven transition [Fig. 4(c)], the polaron energy remains ∼ 300 meV higher than that of the FMM phase. This suggests that the electron-phonon coupling in the photo-induced phase is stronger than in the pristine FMM phase, which is consistent with its more insulating character observed in the laser-transport measurements [Fig. 1(c,d)]. These findings support that the photo-induced phase is not a transition into the metallic FMM phase. To investigate the polaron across the phase diagram of LCMO as a function of epitaxial strain and temperature, we collected RIXS spectra in the high-temperature PMI phase at 320 K ( TC = 220 K). Figure 4(e) compares the 6(d) (b) (a)  

> EF

E i

## FMM 

E

O 2p

O 1s

Mn t 2g 

EO 1s

E iE F

t 2g 

e g

10Dq 

U

Weak Jahn-Teller distortion MnO 6

t 2g 

e g

E JT 

e g

MnO 6

t 2g 

> (e)

Mn e g

e g & t 2g 

## AFI Intensity (Arb. Units) 

AFI FMM FMM - AFI AFI Photoinduced Photoinduced - AFI Intensity (Arb. Units) 

## Energy (eV) 528 529 530 531 100 K Strong Jahn-Teller distortion 

O 2p

spin down spin up spin down spin up  

> (c)

PMI @ 320 K AFI @ 100 K Energy (eV) 528 529 530 531 Energy (eV) 528 529 530 531 Intensity (Arb. Units) 

PMI - AFI 

Mn e g

Mn t 2g Mn t 2g 

Mn e gMn e g

Mn t 2g e g & t 2g 

FIG. 3. (a) O-K edge XAS of the FMM and AFI phases at 100 K. The peaks between 528-531 eV are related to the Mn-3 d and O-2 p hybridization. (b) O-K edge XAS of the AFI and photo-induced phases at 100 K. (c) O-K edge XAS of the AFI phase at 100 K and the PMI phase at 320 K. Purple curves in (a-c): XAS difference plots of the FMM-AFI, photo-induced-AFI, and PMI-AFI phases, respectively. (d,e) Schematic view of the spin-projected partial density of states (DOS) of the FMM and AFI phases, respectively, along with the O-K XAS process. The DOS of O-2 p, Mn e g , and Mn t 2g states are filled with yellow, purple, and green colors. Ei refers to the incident x-ray energy. The view of the Mn 3 d orbital splitting based on the DOS is included for better visualization of the weak and strong Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion for the FMM and AFI phases, respectively. The DOS of the AFI phase is calculated based on an CE-type antiferromagnetic structure [38]. 

RIXS spectra of the AFI and PMI phases. The polaron energy shifts from ∼ 960 to 750 meV across the AFI-to-PMI transition. Even though the energy shift of the polaron is comparable for the PMI and the photo-induced phases [Fig. 4(d)], the photo-induced effects cannot be attributed to thermal heating as the laser was off when collecting RIXS (the acquisition time of a RIXS spectrum is about 3h). Furthermore, the photo-induced phase partially melts the Jahn-Teller distortion [Fig. 3(b)], whereas the PMI phase reflects thermal broadening and disorder but retains the Jahn-Teller distortion as corrob-orated by XAS [Fig. 3(c)]. This behavior is consistent with the well-known persistence of dynamic Jahn-Teller distortion in magneto-resistive manganites at high tem-perature [4, 23–25]. 

Section V: Phonons of the FMM, AFI, PMI, and Photo-induced phases 

Owing to the high resolution of RIXS, we can measure phonons in LCMO as a function of temperature, epitax-ial strain, and laser fluence. Phonons change dramati-cally across the epitaxial strain-induced IMT. Figure 5(a) compares the RIXS spectra below 200 meV for the FMM and AFI phases at 100 K. The phonon at ≈ 60 meV is a Jahn-Teller active Mn-O stretching mode [24, 40]. The FMM phase has a suppression of the phonon intensity, accompanied with about 10 meV red shift of the phonon 7(a) 

528.5 

529.0 529.5 530.0 530.5 531.0 Energy (eV) FMM 

> e gt 2g

## Energy loss (eV) Intensity (Arb. Units) -0.1 0.0 0.1 1.0 0.5 1.5 Phonons Polaron Mn dd E i = 529.4 eV @ e gE i = 530.2 eV @ t 2g 

FMM @ 100 K Polaron 

0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.0 1.0 0.5 1.5 0 400 800 1200 1600 0 400 800 1200 1600 0 400 800 1200 1600 Energy loss (eV) 

Polaron (b) (c) (d) (e) Photoinduced AFI 100 K Energy loss (meV) Intensity (Arb. Units) AFI @ 100 K PMI @ 320 K Energy loss (meV) Intensity (Arb. Units) Intensity (Arb. Units) Energy loss (meV) FMM AFI × 1.3 Polaron 100 K 

34.9 mJ/cm 2

FIG. 4. (a) RIXS intensity map of the FMM phase as a function of incident photon energy and energy loss. The XAS of FMM at 100 K is included on the left panel. (b) RIXS spectra of the FMM phase at two incident energies: 529.4 and 530.2 eV. The peaks assigned to phonon, polaron, and Mn dd excitations are labeled. (c) RIXS spectra of the FMM and AFI phases at 100 K. The intensity of the RIXS spectra of the AFI phase is enlarged by 1.3 times for better visualization. (d) RIXS spectra of the AFI and photo-induced phases at 100 K. The spectrum of the photo-induced phase is offset along the vertical axis for better visualization. (e) RIXS spectra of the AFI and PMI phase at 100 K and 320 K, respectively. Solid lines in (c-e): Fitting of the polaron peak. Vertical lines at the bottom of each figure indicate the polaron energies. All RIXS spectra in (c-e) are taken with Ei = 529.4 eV. (a) (b) (c) 050 100 150 200 

> -50

Energy loss (meV) Phonon Bi-phonon Intensity (Arb. Units) Intensity (Arb. Units) 050 100 150 200 -50 Energy loss (meV) Phonon Bi-phonon Intensity (Arb. Units) 050 100 150 200 -50 Energy loss (meV) Phonon Bi-phonon    

> 34.9 mJ/cm 2Phonon FMM AFI 100 K Photoinduced AFI Phonon Phonon
> PMI @ 320 K AFI
> 100 K 100 K

FIG. 5. (a) Low-energy RIXS spectra of the FMM and AFI (100) phases at 100 K. (b) Low-energy RIXS spectra of the AFI and photo-induced phases at 100 K. (c) Low-energy RIXS spectra of the AFI and the PMI phases at 100 K and 320 K, respectively. The phonon and bi-phonon are labeled in each figure. The insets show the phonon at ∼ 60 meV. Vertical lines at the bottom of each figure indicate the phonon energies. All RIXS spectra are taken with Ei = 529.4 eV. 

energy. As the RIXS phonon intensity is proportional to the electron-phonon coupling strength [40, 47], this sup-8pression and the phonon softening reflect a reduction in coupling due to electronic screening in the metallic phase, consistent with its weak Jahn-Teller distortion and soft-ened polaron energy [Fig. 4(c)]. Figure 5(b) depicts the evolution of the Mn-O stretch-ing mode before and after photo-excitation. In con-trast to the prominent softening of the polaron peak [Fig. 4(d)], the phonon exhibits only a minor red shift and negligible change in intensity compared to the un-pumped AFI state. This suggests that the Jahn-Teller distortion is only partially relaxed, consistent to the re-duced e g - t 2g splitting in the XAS of the photo-induced phase [Fig. 3(b)]. Collectively, the photo-induced ef-fects from XAS (Jahn-Teller distortion), RIXS (polaron and phonon), and transport are markedly different from those observed across the epitaxial strain-induced IMT [Fig. 4(c) and Fig. 5(a)]. This reinforces the conclu-sion that the photo-induced and FMM phases are dis-tinct. Within our laser-pumping conditions, our obser-vation contrasts with previous studies using 800 nm laser excitation, where the photo-induced state was sometimes interpreted as resembling the FMM phase [1, 4]. The RIXS spectra of the high-temperature PMI phase exhibit a stronger elastic peak, attributed to thermal diffuse scattering, along with suppressed phonon inten-sity and higher phonon energy compared to the AFI phase. The phonon hardening is more significant near 

TC (220 K) which is consistent with the dynamic Jahn-Teller model that links electron-phonon interaction with a double exchange mechanism (see Supplementary In-formation [32], Fig. S11) [23, 24]. This trend is oppo-site to the phonon softening seen in the FMM state [Fig. 5(a)], where the Jahn-Teller distortion is weakened. This reveals that the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion remains un-relaxed in the PMI phase. The different phonon be-havior in the photo-induced and high temperature PMI phases confirms that the photo-induced effects [Fig. 3(b) and Fig. 4(d)] do not arise from thermal heating, which would otherwise concurrently affect both the phonon and polaron excitations. 

Section VI: Fluence dependence of phonons and polaron excitations 

To systematically characterize the evolution of the photo-induced phase, we measured the polaron and phonon responses at various laser fluence. Figure 6(a) shows RIXS spectra of the AFI (100) film as a function of fluence. Using a single-peak fit to the spectral feature between 400 and 1000 meV, the effective polaron energy decreases by about ∼ 60 - 180 meV compared to that of the AFI phase as the laser fluence increases. The photo-induced phases at each fluence are long-lived, consistent with the laser-transport data [Fig. 1(d)]. Remarkably, the 60 meV Mn-O stretching phonon remains nearly un-0400 800 1200 1600 25.5 mJ/cm 234.9 mJ/cm 2Intensity (Arb. Units) Energy loss (meV) 100 K 0 mJ/cm 217 mJ/cm 20 mJ/cm 217 mJ/cm 2Intensity (Arb. Units) Energy loss (meV) 100 K 0 mJ/cm 217 mJ/cm 225.5 mJ/cm 234.9 mJ/cm 2phonon bi-phonon -50 050 100 150 200  

> (a) (b)

FIG. 6. (a) RIXS spectra of LCMO-AFI (100) at energy loss -100 - 1800 meV at different laser fluence. The data are vertically offset for better visualization. (b) RIXS spectra of LCMO-AFI (100) at energy loss from -50 - 200 meV at different laser fluence. The phonon and bi-phonon are labeled. All spectra are taken at E i = 529.4 eV. 

changed across fluences. The noticeable softening of the polaron excitations and constancy of the phonons to photo-excitation indi-cate that the photo-induced state differs from the FMM. However, with only a micron-scale spatial resolution, the spatial distribution of the photo-induced phase remains unknown with the possibility of phase separation and non-complete switching between the AFI and the photo-induced phases. To better understand this issue, we have prepared another 24 nm LCMO/NGO (100) film which naturally exhibits mixed phase at the equilibrium (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S2). Unlike the photo-induced phase, this equilibrium mixed-phase sam-ple shows a clear polaron spectral weight enhancement together with a significantly suppressed phonon inten-sity. Within our spatial and energy resolution, we do not observe a clear two-peak structure of the polaron features in the photo-induced RIXS spectra. Therefore, this dif-ference highlights that the photo-induced state is unlikely to be composed by a mixed phase of AFI and FMM (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S2). 

Section VII: Linking electric transport to polarons 

To relate the polaron excitations to the resistivity and clarify their connection, we measure the evolution of the polaron as a function of temperature. Figure 7(a,b) dis-plays RIXS spectra of the AFI and FMM (100) films at various temperatures. For the FMM film, the polaron excitations show a spectral weight suppression across the FMM-to-PMI transition at 220 K. The polaron energy has a non-monotonic behavior as the temperature in-creases: it increases with temperature below T C (220 K) and decreases with temperature above T C . On the contrary, in the AFI, the polaron energy systematically decreases as the temperature increases, where its spectral weight is less sensitive to the temperature than that of 9(a) 0400 800 1200 1600 100 K 150 K 220 K 320 K Intensity (Arb. Units) Energy loss (meV) Polaron FMM flim 0400 800 1200 1600 100 K 150 K 220 K 320 K Intensity (Arb. Units) Energy loss (meV) AFI film (b) 

> FIG. 7. (a,b) RIXS spectra of the FMM and AFI at different temperatures, respectively.

the FMM film. We quantify the polaronic excitations energy from fitting of the RIXS data. Figure 8(a) shows the ex-tracted polaron energy as a function of temperature for both FMM and AFI. The resistivity changes more than four orders of magnitude with temperature [Fig. 8(b)], whereas the polaron energy changes within one order of magnitude. Therefore, a linear change in polaron energy is connected to an exponential change in resistivity. To explain this, we use the strong coupling limit of the Hol-stein polaron model [48]. In the ‘strongly-coupled’ small polaron regime ( λe−ph ≫ 1) of the Holstein polaron, the carrier mobility as a function of temperature ( μ(T )) is described by [49]: 

μ(T ) = 1

T k exp( − Ep/4 − t′

T ) (1) where Ep is the polaron energy. For an Holstein-type po-laron, Ep = 2 Eb, where Eb is the polaron binding energy. 

t′ is the hopping amplitude, k = 1 (1.5) for the adiabatic (non-adiabatic) case. The resistivity ρ(T ) is the inverse of the conductivity σ(T ) = nμ (T ), where we assume for sim-plicity that the carrier concentration is temperature in-dependent. While this expression originates from a one-dimensional formulation, it captures the essential physics of small polaron tunneling between localized lattice sites and has been shown to be broadly applicable across dif-ferent dimensionalities. Specifically, the functional form of the temperature-dependent mobility is governed pri-marily by the electron-phonon coupling strength and the spatial extent of the lattice deformation, rather than the dimensionality per se. This behavior has been confirmed experimentally in two-dimensional manganite thin films [50] and through numerous experimental and theoretical studies showing consistent polaron dynamics across 1D and 3D systems [49, 51, 52]. Thus, Equation 1 provides a reliable and physically meaningful framework for ex-tracting transport-relevant parameters in the ‘strongly-coupled’ small polaronic regime of LCMO. Figure 8(a) displays the calculated resistivity as a func-tion of temperature. By fitting the temperature depen-dence of the polaron energy using Eq. 1, we determine 

k = 1.1, t′ = 1260 and 1650 K for the FMM and AFI phases, respectively. These t′ values are physically rea-sonable when interpreted as effective hopping parame-ters within the ‘strongly-coupled’ Holstein polaron frame-work, which are distinct from the bare electronic hop-ping amplitudes. In the ‘strong-coupling’ regime, the electron hopping is renormalized by the lattice distortion and the polaronic mass enhancement, and thus t′ reflects the strong thermally activated mobility of dressed quasi-particles rather than band-like transport [49]. We note that the extracted hopping amplitudes t′ (1260 K and 1650 K) correspond to polaron activation energies on the order of 110-140 meV, which is consistent with the values reported in optical and transport studies of manganites [26, 46, 50]. The calculated resistivity curve aligns with the exper-imental temperature trend of the polaron in all equi-librium phases, demonstrating that the polaron excita-tions of the FMM, AFI, and PMI phases are all in the ‘strongly-coupled’ regime [49]. For the photo-induced phase, the polaron also resides in the strong-coupling limit, as its energy falls between those of the FMM and AFI phases, while the phonon energy closely resembles that of the AFI phase. According to Eq. 1, the electric resistivity for a Holstein polaron in the ‘strongly-coupled’ regime depends solely on the polaron excitation energy 

Ep and the hopping amplitude t′. However, since Ep does not explicitly include any temperature-dependent terms [49], the strong temperature-dependence of Ep observed in Fig. 8 arises from changes in the electron-phonon Hamiltonian parameters caused by the T -dependent reconstruction of LCMO. Our XAS and RIXS data on phonons indicate that the electron-phonon coupling strength in LCMO is sensitive to the local Jahn-Teller distortion. This suggests that the observed temperature dependence of Ep is strongly associated with the strength of the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion. 

> DISCUSSION

Figure 8(b) summarizes the polaronic states for the AFI, FMM, PMI, and photo-induced phases under epi-taxial strain, temperature, and photo-excitation. Even though the polarons in all phases are in the ‘strongly-coupled’ regime, their origins are distinct as their en-ergies are influenced by the strength of the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion and the amplitude of ‘activated-hopping’ [49]. From theoretical work [49], the ‘activated hopping’ regime occurs when the thermal energy exceeds a quar-ter of the phonon frequency, resulting in a positive steep-ness of the polaron mobility ( dμ/dT > 0) [49]. As the polaron mobility is directly proportional to its excita-tion energy and the strength of electron-phonon coupling [49], we can classify different polaronic states of LCMO 10 Polaron energy (meV) Temperature (K) 100 200 300 400 500 600 800 850 900 950 1000 ρ(T) ~ T 1.1 e[( Epol /4) - t']/ TFMM AFI 10 210 310 410 510 610 2400 500 600    

> 800 850 900 950 1000 (a) 10 7FMM: Weak Jahn-Teller, polaron liquid PMI: Dynamic Jahn-Teller, ‘Activated hopping’ Photoinduced phase: A `hidden' phase with partially melted Jahn-Teller polaron crystal
> AFI: Strong Jahn-Teller, polaron crystal FMM AFI Photoinduced Measured  ρ (Ω cm )Calculated  ρ ( )Arb. Units
> e-e-Polaron energy (meV) 050 100 150 200 250 300

Temperature (K) 10 -3 10 -2 10 -1 10 010 110 2 

> 10 2(b) 17 25.5 34.9

FIG. 8. (a) Polaron excitation energy of the FMM (blue squares) and AFI (red squares) as a function of temperature from fitting the RIXS spectra using an antisymmetric Lorentz function. Error bars are estimated from multiple fittings. The dashed lines are the calculated electric resistivity using Eq. 1. We find t′ = 1260 K and 1650 K for the FMM and AFI phases, respectively. (b) Polaron excitation energy of the FMM (red squares) and AFI (blue squares) samples as a function of temperature, along with the polaron energy of the photo-induced ‘hidden’ phase at different laser fluence (green squares). The solid lines are the measured resistivity vs. temperature curves of the pristine LCMO-FMM and LCMO-AFI films. The cartoons illustrate the different Jahn-Teller polaronic states corresponding to the AFI, FMM, photoinduced, and PMI phases, respectively. 

from the polaron temperature dependence measured by RIXS. The AFI phase has the largest λe−ph as the Q2

Jahn-Teller distortion is enhanced by b-axis tensile strain. This cooperative Jahn-Teller distortion (AFI phase) also stabilizes a putative charge- and orbital-ordered struc-ture [4, 5, 21, 38]. Therefore, the polaron of the AFI phase corresponds to an ordered array of the localized Jahn-Teller clusters, namely a ‘polaron-crystal’ state [26]. This dramatically suppresses the electron hopping be-tween the Mn sites, consistent with its robust insulating behavior (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S1). For the FMM phase, the polaronic excitation energy is about 500 meV lower than that of the AFI referring to a smaller λe−ph due to the weaker Q2 Jahn-Teller dis-tortion. Furthermore, the polaron energy and resistivity increases with temperature when below 220 K, proving a negative steepness of the polaron mobility [( dμ/dT < 0)] [Fig. 7(a)]. These behaviors indicate that the polaron of the FMM phase is not in the ‘activated-hopping’ regime (when dμ/dT > 0) as it would require a sizable phonon population unattainable at 100 K. The weak metallicity and ‘strongly-coupled’ polaron suggest that the polaronic state of the FMM phase aligns likely with a ‘polaron liq-uid’ phase, where the polaron mobility lies between that of a coherent metal and an ordered polaron-crystal insu-lator [40]. In the photo-induced phase, the polaron exci-tation energy systematically softens from the initial AFI phase as the fluence increases. The polaron excitation energy fall between those of the AFI and FMM phases, while the phonon shows minimal changes, indicating the emergence of a new state induced by the partial melting of the Jahn-Teller polaron-crystal state [Fig. 3(b) and Fig. 5(b)]. The high-temperature PMI phase exhibits a polaron excitation energy similar to the photo-induced phase. However, the origin of the polaronic state dif-fers, as the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion remains un-relaxed in the PMI phase [Fig. 3(c) and Fig. 5(c)]. On the other hand, the polaron excitation energy and resistiv-ity decrease with temperature when above 220 K [Fig. 7(a,b)], consistent with an ‘activated-hopping’ mecha-nism ( dμ/dT > 0) [49]. The different polaronic states of the FMM, AFI, PMI and photo-induced phases are pictorially summarized in Fig. 8(b). Another factor to explain the photo-induced phase is the role of orbital order. In perovskite manganites such as PCMO and PSMO, the long-lived photo-induced states have been associated with glassy dynamics in the coupled charge-orbital-Jahn-Teller sector, with ultra-fast melting of charge/orbital order followed by a slow, domain-limited recovery [53, 54]. The AFI ground state of our LCMO films is likewise stabilized by cooperative Jahn-Teller distortions and possibly orbital order (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S13). In the photo-induced state, however, we find a substantial softening of the effective polaron excitation energy with fluence, while the 60 meV Jahn-Teller active phonon intensity and en-ergy are only weakly modified and remain less suppressed than in an equilibrium mixed-phase film (Fig. 6 and see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S2). The 60 meV mode is primarily sensitive to the local Jahn-Teller dis-11 tortion amplitude, whereas the polaron excitation energy depends on a combination of factors from both charge and lattice degrees of freedom, including the long-range pattern of the occupied e g orbitals (orbital order), charge order, and the electronic hopping amplitudes and band-width. A photo-induced state in which long-range or-bital/charge order is strongly disrupted (shorter correla-tion length, increased domain walls, and/or orbital dis-order), whereas the average local Jahn-Teller distortion is only partially reduced, naturally produces a relatively overall unchanged phonon but a much larger shift of the polaron binding energy. This places the photo-induced state between the AFI and FMM phases and is qualita-tively consistent with an intermediate orbital configura-tion that may be more disordered or glassy than in the AFI ground state [53, 54]. At the same time, because our O K-edge RIXS measurements do not directly re-solve orbital-order superlattice peaks and provide only volume-averaged information, we cannot distinguish un-ambiguously between a homogeneous phase with reduced orbital order and a more glassy, phase-separated configu-ration. A definitive characterization of the role of orbital order involved in the photo-induced transition will re-quire future time-resolved resonant x-ray diffraction at the Mn L-edge with sensitivity to orbital-order super-structures. We next comment on the possible microscopic laser-switching mechanism of the photo-induced ‘hidden’ phase, based on electric transport, phonons, polarons, and the evolution of the e g - t 2g splitting associated with Jahn-Teller distortion. According to our DFT calcula-tions, the CE-type AFI phase is charge- and orbital-ordered with the Jahn-Teller active Mn 3+ and the Jahn-Teller inactive Mn 4+ sites (see Supplementary Informa-tion [32], Fig. S13). The Mn 3+ has a single electron oc-cupying the d3z2−r2 orbital which aligns along one of the in-plane diagonal direction of the MnO 6 octahedra [Fig. 2(b)] [21, 35, 55]. This orbital occupancy elongates the Mn-O bond along the direction in the Mn-O basal plane, as shown in Fig. 2(b). Consequently, epitaxial uniax-ial tensile strain along the b-axis enhances the Q2 Jahn-Teller distortion, stabilizing the AFI phase over the FMM phase without altering the doping level. Previous studies using an 800 nm pump [1, 4], reso-nant with an optically allowed Mn 3+ → Mn 4+ charge-transfer excitation, reported a dramatic resistivity drop by several orders of magnitude [4]. The resulting photo-induced phase was interpreted to be similar in character to the bulk FMM phase. In contrast, our results using a 1030 nm pump suggest a different photo-induced long-lived state, raising the question of whether the excitation mechanism differs. Two possibilities can account for this difference: (i) the 1030 nm laser excites the low-energy tail of the same charge-transfer transition observed at 800 nm, but has a higher fluence threshold; or (ii) the 1030 nm excitation primarily drives an on-site Mn dd or-bital transition, specifically from d3z2−r2 to dx2−y2 based on our Mn L-edge measurements and DFT calculations [Fig. 2]. While this on-site excitation is nominally dipole-forbidden, it can become optically active through vi-bronic coupling and O 2 p - Mn 3 d hybridization [Fig. 3]. These two channels likely coexist within the 1.2 - 1.6 eV energy window, consistent with our RIXS analysis [Fig. 2(a,b)]. In addition to the wavelength, other laser parameters including pulse duration and repetition rate play a role. Our pulses ( ≈ 250 fs) are substantially longer than the 35 - 50 fs single-shot pulses used in Refs. 1, 4. The longer du-ration might allow for partial relaxation after the photo-excitation, lowering the transient electronic temperature and thereby increasing the fluence threshold required to cross the non-thermal phase boundary. This may also stabilize a distinct metastable phase which alters the relaxation pathway within the free-energy landscape [14, 56]. Similar pulse-duration-dependent selection of driven quantum states has been demonstrated in Floquet and superconducting systems [57, 58]. Furthermore, our quasi-continuous 1 kHz operation ( ≈ 3 × 10 4 pulses dur-ing a 30 - seconds exposure window) differs from pulse-picked single-shot protocols reported in Refs. 4, 5. In this configuration, each pulse can interact with the sam-ple that is still slightly out of equilibrium before fully relaxing to its equilibrium state. Therefore, the succes-sive pulses can partially repopulate or relax pre-existing photo-excited domains, effectively “annealing” the lattice into a higher-entropy configuration by partially melting the orbital order and Jahn-Teller distortion. This could naturally lead to a weaker or modified ‘hidden’ phase and result in a higher fluence threshold compared to single-shot optical studies [1, 4, 5]. Single-shot measurements have revealed phases that can be obscured or modified under high-rep-rate, multi-pulse conditions, and related sensitivity of the selected metastable phase to excitation protocol has been reported in 1T-TaS 2 and Ta 2NiSe 5 [59– 61], underscoring the importance of excitation protocol in determining the observed phase and threshold. Our results show that the nature of the photo-induced phase in LCMO is very sensitive to all these parame-ters, which opens the possibility for studies based on different excitation protocols. Future laser-RIXS exper-iments with tunable wavelength, adjustable pulse dura-tion, and capability of pulse-picking, as well as potential time-resolved RIXS measurement will be crucial to sepa-rate these effects and understand how different laser con-ditions reshape the free-energy landscape of manganites. 

> SUMMARY

In summary, our findings report on the emergence of a photo-induced ‘hidden’ phase in LCMO and re-veal the evolution of the elementary excitations across 12 different electronic phases. We demonstrate that dis-tinct polaronic states can be stabilized through the tun-ing of epitaxial strain, temperature, and orbital-selective photo-excitation and reveal the connection of the elec-tronic transport with the polaronic excitations of each individual phase. Overall, our experimental approach combining ultrafast optical photo-excitation and high-resolution RIXS offers direct spectroscopic access to or-bital, phononic, and charge excitations, and establishes a framework for exploring the coupling between multi-ple degrees of freedom in metastable laser-driven phases. These results pave the way for extending this methodol-ogy to other strongly correlated systems, enabling con-trolled manipulation of quantum matter beyond equilib-rium. 

> METHODS

Film preparation and characterization. The LCMO thin films were grown on the NdGaO 3 substrates with the [100] or [001] crystallographic direction nor-mal to the surface. Using a KrF excimer laser with a wavelength of 248 nm, LCMO films were deposited via a customized pulsed laser deposition system at an energy density of ∼ 2 J/cm 2 and a repetition rate of 5 Hz. The sample-to-target distance was fixed to 5.5 cm. During de-position, the substrate temperature and oxygen pressure were kept at 735 ◦C and 40 Pa, respectively. Before cool-ing down to room temperature, all LCMO films were in situ annealed for 15 mins, and exhibit the ferromagnetic metallic ground state, which are labeled as the as-grown film. Then, some of LCMO films were ex situ annealed at 800 °C in flowing O 2 gas for 30 h, and show the an-tiferromagnetic insulating ground state, which are de-noted as the annealed film. The LCMO films were struc-turally characterized with 2 θ-ω linear scans by X-ray diffraction using Cu K α1 radiation (Panalytical X ´pert) (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S1). The sur-face morphology was characterized using an atomic force microscopy (Vecco, MultiMode V). The magnetization measurements were performed using a Quantum Design magnetic property measurement system (MPMS3). The resistivity was determined by standard four-point-probe method in a temperature range of 10-300 K using a Quantum Design physical property measurement system (PPMS). The X-ray diffraction, electric resistivity, and magnetization data are in the Supplementary Informa-tion [32]. 

Laser - transport measurements in LCMO -AFI films. We deposited a series of electrodes on our LCMO/NGO (100/001) films with 500 or 300 μm sep-aration distance. The voltage between the top (labeled as 1) and bottom (labeled as 2) electrodes shown in Fig. 1(b) is measured at the fixed current I = 10 nA. The low applied current is to minimize Joule heating. The resistance is calculated using the Ohm’s law. The ul-trafast laser spot is focused to roughly 120 μm and is guided to the center between the electrodes which can be visualized by an infrared camera. In this case, the resis-tance between electrodes 1 and 2 will be a combination of the un-switched and switched area since the separa-tion distance is much bigger than the laser spot size. We therefore only focus on the percentage of changes in resis-tance rather than resistivity since the precise resistivity change after photoexcitation depends on how domains are reformed and connected. 

Ultrafast laser setup and laser beam charac-terization. We have developed an experimental setup where an ultrafast laser beam is introduced into the ex-perimental RIXS sample chamber [see Supplementary In-formation [32], Fig. S12(a)]. Specifically, we use an ul-trafast (1030 nm center wavelength) Yb fiber laser pro-viding pulses width of 250 fs that is focused to ∼ 200 

μm diameter onto the sample using a series of focusing lenses and a Keplerian-type beam expander [see Supple-mentary Information [32], Fig. S12(c)]. The laser beam profile is displayed in Supplementary Fig. S12(d) [32], confirming the high quality Gaussian-shape of our beam. The optics is placed out of vacuum for simplicity, and a continuous-wave (CW) alignment laser (633 nm) is inte-grated into the same optical path of the ultrafast laser beam by means of a beam splitter [see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S12(c)]. In this case, the ultrafast laser spot will retrace the beam path of the CW laser and shine at roughly the same position on the sample. A camera sensitive to infrared light is used for fine tuning the location of the laser beam on the sample and align it to the x-rays beam [see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S12(b)]. The x-ray beam size is around 2 ×20 μm, which is 10 times smaller compared to the laser spot. In this case, we confirm our measured area is fully irradi-ated by the laser and any photo-induced effect is real. The laser average power is measured by a power meter with an attached thermal power sensor. The laser power can be controlled by varying the transmission percent-age of the oscillator of the laser. The maximum average power at 1 kHz is about 7000 μW [see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S12(e)] and the beam size is ≈ 200 

μm, which gives a maximum laser fluence of 34.9 mJ/cm 2

at an incident angle of 40 degrees [see Supplementary In-formation [32], Fig. S12(f)]. The fluence values quoted here include the projection factor associated with the in-cident angle. The fluence is varied under different laser power. We also measured the average laser power at dif-ferent repetition rate from 1 Hz to 500 kHz, confirming the laser pulse energy does not vary much when changing the repetition rate. 

RIXS and XAS measurements. RIXS and XAS at the O-K and Mn L3 edges were performed at the 2ID-SIX beamline at NSLS-II, Brookhaven National Labo-ratory (USA). The sample is mounted in a manipulator 13 with four degrees of freedom (x, y, z, and θ) [see Sup-plementary Information [32], Fig. S12(c)]. To overlap the ultrafast laser with the x-ray beam spot, we use the grazing-out geometry [Fig. 1 and see Supplementary In-formation [32], Fig. S12(c)], in which the grazing angle θ

is fixed at 140 degree to maximize the laser fluence. The scattering angle (2Θ) is fixed at 150 degree to maximize the momentum transfer [see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S12(c)]. The corresponding wavevector of the polaron is Q ≈ [0.095, 0.095, 0.289]. For the momentum dependence measurements on polaron [see Supplemen-tary Information [32], Fig. S4(a)], we use the grazing-in geometry with σ polarization of the incident x-ray. Since the film is three-dimensional, we measure the polaron dispersion under the specular condition by varying θ and 2Θ correspondingly ( θ = 2Θ 2 ) to allow the momentum transfer along the [ h,h,h] direction (pseudo cubic nota-tion). The XAS spectra were collected in total fluores-cence yield (TFY), using both vertical σ. The σ and π

polarizations are defined in Fig. 1. All the XAS and RIXS spectra displayed in this paper are collected us-ing the σ polarization. The RIXS energy resolution is about 27 meV at the O-K edge, as determined by elastic measurements of a multilayer reference sample. An Alu-minum filter is used to remove any infrared photons on the RIXS detector. The Fitting of RIXS spectra is de-tailed in the Supplementary Information [32]. For better visualization in Figs. 4 and Supplementary Figs. S2, S7, S8 [32], spectra were binned by a two-point adjacent aver-age (effective width ≈ 23 meV < instrumental resolution 

≈ 27 meV). All fits were cross-checked on raw and binned data and yielded consistent parameters within the experi-mental uncertainty (see Supplementary Information [32], Fig. S10). 

First-principles calculations. First-principles density-functional theory (DFT) calculations were per-formed using the Vienna ab initio Simulation Pack-age (VASP) [62] within the projector-augmented wave (PAW) framework [63]. The revised generalized-gradient approximation as parameterized by Perdew, Burke, and Ernzerhof (PBEsol) was employed for exchange-correlation functional [64]. Ten (3 s23p64s2), eleven (5 s25p65d16s2), thirteen (3 p63d54s2), and six (2 s22p4)valence electrons were considered in the PAW pseudopo-tentials of Ca , La, Mn, and O, respectively. Strong cor-relation effects for Mn 3 d electrons were treated at the mean-field level using the rotationally invariant DFT+ U

method introduced by Liechtenstein et al. [65]. We set 

U (Mn-3 d) = 4 eV, J(Mn-3 d) = 1 eV, U (La-4 f ) = 6 eV, and J(La-4 f ) = 0 eV following Refs. [22]. We find that this set of values appropriately describes the lattice pa-rameters, magnetic structure, and vibrational proper-ties of La 2/3Ca 1/3MnO 3. La/Ca concentration ratio of 0.67/0.33 was simulated using the virtual-crystal approx-imation [66] which has been reported to produce reliable results for similar systems [67]. The total energy conver-gence and residual force convergence criteria were set to 10 −7 eV and 10 −3 eV/˚ A, respectively. The cutoff energies for the plane-wave basis set was set at 600 eV. We used a Monkhorst-pack k-mesh [68] of size 12 ×12 ×9 to sample the reciprocal space. Electronic structure was analyzed using the Pyprocar package [69]. 

> ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

We thank Dr. John Freeland, Prof. Andrew Millis, Dr. Mark Dean, and Prof. Jingdi Zhang for useful discus-sions. Work at Brookhaven National Laboratory was supported by the DOE Office of Science under Contract No. DE-SC0012704. This work was supported by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development project of Brookhaven National Laboratory No. 21-037. UK was supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Ba-sic Energy. This work was supported by the U.S. Depart-ment of Energy (DOE) Office of Science, Early Career Research Program. This research used Beamline 2-ID of the National Synchrotron Light Source II, a U.S. De-partment of Energy (DOE) Office of Science User Facility operated for the DOE Office of Science by Brookhaven National Laboratory under Contract No. DE-SC0012704. The authors at the University of Science and Technology of China acknowledge the financial support from Quan-tum Science and Technology Major Project, with Grant No. 2024ZD0301300. The authors also acknowledge the Anhui Provincial Natural Science Foundation with Grant No. 2308085MA15. SS was supported by the U.S. De-partment of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Fusion Energy Sciences, Quantum Information Science program under Award Number DE-SC-0020340. SS also acknowl-edges support from the University Research Awards at the University of Rochester. O.S.B. and A.M. acknowl-edge financial support from the Croatian Science Foun-dation, Grants No. HRZZ-IP-2022-10-3382 and HRZZ-IP-2024-05-2406, respectively. 

> COMPETING INTERESTS

The authors declare no competing interests. 

> DATA AVAILABILITY

Relevant data are available upon reasonable request from the corresponding authors. 

> [1] A. S. McLeod, J. Zhang, M. Q. Gu, F. Jin, G. Zhang, K. W. Post, X. G. Zhao, A. J. Millis, W. B. Wu, J. M.

14 

Rondinelli, R. D. Averitt, and D. N. Basov, Nat. Mater. 

19 , 397 (2019). [2] X. Li, T. Qiu, J. Zhang, E. Baldini, J. Lu, A. M. Rappe, and K. A. Nelson, Science 364 , 1079 (2019). [3] T. F. Nova, A. S. Disa, M. Fechner, and A. Cavalleri, Science 364 , 1075 (2019). [4] J. Zhang, X. Tan, M. Liu, S. W. Teitelbaum, K. W. Post, F. Jin, K. A. Nelson, D. N. Basov, W. Wu, and R. D. Averitt, Nat. Mater. 15 , 956 (2016). [5] S. W. Teitelbaum, B. K. Ofori-Okai, Y. H. Cheng, J. Zhang, F. Jin, W. Wu, R. D. Averitt, and K. A. Nelson, Phys. Rev. Lett. 123 , 267201 (2019). [6] F. Y. Gao, Z. Zhang, Z. Sun, L. Ye, Y. H. Cheng, Z. J. Liu, J. G. Checkelsky, E. Baldini, and K. A. Nelson, Sci. Adv. 8, eabp9076 (2022). [7] M. P. M. Dean, Y. Cao, X. Liu, S. Wall, D. Zhu, R. Mankowsky, V. Thampy, X. M. Chen, J. G. Vale, D. Casa, J. Kim, A. H. Said, P. Juhas, R. Alonso-Mori, J. M. Glownia, A. Robert, J. Robinson, M. Sikorski, S. Song, M. Kozina, H. Lemke, L. Patthey, S. Owada, T. Katayama, M. Yabashi, Y. Tanaka, T. Togashi, J. Liu, C. R. Serrao, B. J. Kim, L. Huber, C. L. Chang, D. F. McMorrow, M. F¨ orst, and J. P. Hill, Nat. Mater. 15 ,601 (2016). [8] D. Fausti, R. I. Tobey, N. Dean, S. Kaiser, A. Dienst, M. C. Hoffmann, S. Pyon, T. Takayama, H. Takagi, and A. Cavalleri, Science. 331 , 189 (2011). [9] A. Zong, Y. Q. B. A. Kogar, T. Rohwer, C. Lee, E. Bal-dini, E. Erge¸ cen, M. B. Yilmaz, B. Freelon, E. J. Sie, H. Zhou, J. Straquadine, P. Walmsley, P. E. Dolgirev, A. V. Rozhkov, I. R. Fisher, P. J.-Herrero, B. V. Fine, and N. Gedik, Nat. Phys. 15 , 27–31 (2019). [10] R. Mankowsky, A. Subedi, M. Fo ¨rst, S. O. Mariager, M. Chollet, H. T. Lemke, J. S. Robinson, J. M. Glow-nia, M. P. Minitti, A. Frano, M. Fechner, N. A. Spaldin, T. Loew, B. Keimer, A. Georges, and A. Cavalleri, Na-ture 516 , 71 (2014). [11] P. Beaud, A. Caviezel, S. O. Mariager, L. Rettig, G. Ingold, C. Dornes, S. W. Huang, J. A. Johnson, M. Radovic, T. Huber, T. Kubacka, A. Ferrer, H. T. Lemke, M. Chollet, D. Zhu, J. M. Glownia, M. Siko-rski, A. Robert, H. Wadati, M. Nakamura, M. Kawasaki, Y. Tokura, S. L. Johnson, and U. Staub, Nat. Mater. 

13 , 923 (2014). [12] V. Esposito, M. Fechner, R. Mankowsky, H. Lemke, M. Chollet, J. M. Glownia, M. Nakamura, M. Kawasaki, T. Tokura, U. Staub, P. Beaud, and M. F¨ orst, Phys. Rev. Lett. 118 , 247601 (2017). [13] V. A. Stoica, D. Puggioni, J. Zhang, R. Singla, G. L. Dakovski, G. Coslovich, M. H. Seaberg, M. Kareev, S. Middey, P. Kissin, R. D. Averitt, J. Chakhalian, H. Wen, J. M. Rondinelli, and J. W. Freeland, Phys. Rev. B 106 , 165104 (2022). [14] Z. Sun and A. J. Millis, Phys. Rev. X. 10 , 021028 (2020). [15] V. R. Morrison, R. P. Chatelain, K. L. Tiwari, A. Hen-daoui, A. Bruh´ acs, M. Chaker, and B. J. Siwick, Science. 

346 , 445 (2014). [16] M. Mitrano, S. Johnston, Y. Kim, and M. P. M. Dean, Phys. Rev. X. 14 , 040501 (2024). [17] M. Ono, M. Hata, M. Tsunekawa, K. Nozaki, H. Sumikura, H. Chiba, and M. Notomi, Nat. Photonics. 

14 , 37–43 (2020). [18] T. Li, A. Patz, L. Mouchliadis, J. Yan, T. A. Lograsso, I. E. Perakis, and J. Wang, Nature 496 , 69 (2013). [19] H. Ichikawa, S. Nozawa, T. Sato, A. Tomita, K. Ichiyanagi, M. Chollet, L. Guerin, N. Dean, A. Caval-leri, S. Adachi, T. Arima, H. Sawa, Y. Ogimoto, M. Naka-mura, R. Tamaki, M. K., and S. Koshihara, Nat. Mater. 

10 , 101 (2011). [20] H. Zhang, Y. Zhang, R. Li, J. Yu, W. Dong, C. Chen, K. Wang, X. Tang, and J. Chen, npj quantum mater. 4,31 (2019). [21] F. Jin, M. Gu, C. Ma, E. Guo, J. Zhu, L. Qu, Z. Zhang, K. Zhang, L. Xu, B. Chen, F. Chen, G. Gao, J. M. Rondinelli, and W. Wu, Nano Lett. 20 , 1131 (2020). [22] S. S. Hong, M. Gu, M. Verma, V. Harbola, B. Wang, D. Lu, A. Vailionis, Y. Hikita, R. Pentcheva, J. M. Rondinelli, and H. Y. Hwang, Science 368 , 71 (2020). [23] A. J. Millis, B. I. Shraiman, and R. Mueller, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 175 (1996). [24] K. H. Kim, J. Y. Gu, H. S. Choi, G. W. Park, and T. W. Noh, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 1877 (1996). [25] Y. Yamada, O. Hino, S. Nohdo, R. Kanao, T. Inami, and S. Katano, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 904 (1996). [26] C. Jooss, L. Wu, T. Beetz, R. F. Klie, M. Beleggia, M. A. Schofield, S. Schramm, J. Hoffmann, and Y. Zhu, PNAS. 

104 , 13597 (2007). [27] T. Mertelj, M. K. D. Kuscer, and D. Mihailovic, Phys. Rev. B. 61 , 15102 (2000). [28] L. J. P. Ament, M. V. Veenendaal, T. P. Devereaux, J. P. Hill, and J. v. D. Brink, Rev. Mod. Phys. 83 , 705 (2011). [29] V. K. Bhartiya, R. Hartmann, F. Forte, F. Gabriele, T. Kim, G. Cuono, C. Autieri, S. Fan, K. Kisslinger, F. Camino, M. Lettieri, R. Fittipaldi, C. Mazzoli, D. N. Basov, J. Pelliciari, A. Di Bernardo, A. Vecchione, M. Cuoco, and V. Bisogni, arXiv:2504.17871 (2025), https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2504.17871. [30] J. Hales, U. Bajpai, T. Liu, D. R. Baykusheva, M. Li, M. Mitrano, and Y. Wang, Nat. Commun. 14 , 3512 (2025). [31] E. Paris, C. W. Nicholson, S. Johnston, Y. Tseng, M. Rumo, G. Coslovich, S. Zohar, M. F. Lin, V. N. Strocov, R. Saint-Martin, A. Revcolevschi, A. Kem-per, W. Schlotter, G. L. Dakovski, C. Monney, and T. Schmitt, npj Quantum Mater. 6, 51 (2021). [32] See Supplementary Information at [URL will be inserted by publisher] for sample characterization, additional ex-perimental details, and supplementary figures, which in-cludes Refs. [70–75]. [33] N. Ramesh, H. Banerjee, J. E. N. Swallow, E. Bj¨ orklund, A. Dean, P. Didwal, M. Fraser, C. M. E. Phelan, L. An, J. Singh, J. Lewis, W. Song, R. A. House, A. J. Morris, R. S. Weatherup, and R. J. Nicholls, Chem. Mater. 36 ,11051 (2024). [34] F. Jin, S. Fan, M. Gu, Q. Lv, M. Ge, Z. Zhang, J. Zhang, J. Lu, T. Kim, V. Bhartiya, Z. Huang, L. Wang, V. Bisogni, J. Pelliciari, and W. Wu, Adv. Funct. Mater. 

250 , 1893 (2025). [35] S. Satpathy, Z. S. Popovic ´, and F. R. Vukajlovic, Phys. Rev. Lett. 76 , 960 (1996). [36] S. Valencia, A. Gaupp, W. Gudat, L. Abad, L. Balcells, B. Mart´ ınez, and V. Laukhin, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 ,172512 (2006). [37] O. Toulemonde, F. Millange, F. Studer, B. Raveau, J. H. Park, and C. T. Chen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 11 ,109 (1999). [38] S. Y. Zhou, Y. Zhu, M. C. Langner, Y. D. Chuang, P. Yu, W. L. Yang, A. G. Cruz Gonzalez, N. Tahir, 15 

M. Rini, Y. H. Chu, R. Ramesh, D. H. Lee, Y. Tomioka, Y. Tokura, Z. Hussain, and R. W. Schoenlein, Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 , 186404 (2011). [39] C. G. Fatuzzo, M. Dantz, S. Fatale, P. Olalde-Velasco, N. E. Shaik, B. Dalla Piazza, S. Toth, J. Pelliciari, R. Fittipaldi, A. Vecchione, N. Kikugawa, J. S. Brooks, H. M. Rønnow, M. Grioni, C. R¨ uegg, T. Schmitt, and J. Chang, Phys. Rev. B 91 , 155104 (2015). [40] D. Jost, H. Y. Huang, M. Rossi, A. Singh, D. J. Huang, Y. Lee, H. Zheng, J. F. Mitchell, B. Moritz, Z. X. Shen, T. P. Devereaux, and W. S. Lee, Phys. Rev. Lett. 132 ,186502 (2024). [41] M. Quijada, J. Cerne, J. R. Simpson, H. D. Drew, K. H. Ahn, A. J. Millis, R. Shreekala, R. Ramesh, M. Ra-jeswari, and T. Venkatesan, Phys. Rev. B. 58 , 16093 (1998). [42] J. H. Jung, K. H. Kim, T. W. Noh, E. J. Choi, and J. Yu, Phys. Rev. B. 57 , R11043 (1998). [43] S. G. Kaplan, M. Quijada, H. D. Drew, D. B. Tanner, G. C. Xiong, R. Ramesh, C. Kwon, and T. Venkatesan, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 2081 (1996). [44] C. Hartinger, F. Mayr, J. Deisenhofer, A. Loidl, and T. Kopp, Phys. Rev. B 69 , 100403(R) (2004). [45] C. Franchini, M. Reticcioli, M. Setvin, and U. Diebold, Nat. Rev. Mater. 6, 560 (2021). [46] D. Emin, Phys. Rev. B. 48 , 13691 (1993). [47] L. Braicovich, M. Rossi, R. Fumagalli, Y. Peng, Y. Wang, R. Arpaia, D. Betto, G. M. De Luca, D. D. Castro, K. Kummer, M. M. Sala, M. Pagetti, G. Balestrino, N. B. Brookes, M. Salluzzo, S. Johnston, J. van den Brink, and G. Ghiringhelli, Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 023231 (2020). [48] D. Emin, Phys. Rev. B. 43 , 11720 (1991). [49] A. S. Mishchenko, N. Nagaosa, G. D. Filippis, A. de Can-dia, and V. Cataudella, Phys. Rev. Lett. 114 , 146401 (2015). [50] M. Ziese and C. Srinitiwarawong, Phys. Rev. B. 58 , 11519 (1998). [51] A. S. Mishchenko, L. Pollet, N. V. Prokof’ev, A. Kumar, D. L. Maslov, and N. Nagaosa, Phys. Rev. Lett. 123 ,076601 (2019). [52] O. Gunnarsson, M. Calandra, and J. E. Han, Rev. Mod. Phys. 75 , 1085 (2003). [53] S. Y. Zhou, M. C. Langner, Y. Zhu, Y. D. Chuang, M. Rini, T. E. Glover, M. P. Hertlein, A. G. C. Gon-zalez, N. Tahir, Y. Tomioka, Y. Tokura, Z. Hussain, and R. W. Schoenlein, Sci. Rep. 4, 4050 (2014). [54] V. Esposito, L. Rettig, E. Abreu, E. M. Bothschafter, G. Ingold, M. Kawasaki, M. Kubli, G. Lantz, M. Naka-mura, J. Rittman, M. Savoini, Y. Tokura, U. Staub, S. L. Johnson, and P. Beaud, Phys. Rev. B. 97 , 014312 (2018). [55] T. Hashimoto, S. Ishibashi, and K. Terakura, Phys. Rev. B 82 , 045124 (2010). [56] A. d. l. Torre, D. M. Kennes, M. Claassen, S. Gerber, J. W. McIver, and M. A. Sentef, Rev. Mod. Phys. 93 ,041002 (2021). [57] M. Lucchini, F. Medeghini, Y. Wu, F. Vismarra, R. B. Varillas, A. Crego, F. Frassetto, L. Poletto, S. A. Sato, H. H¨ ubener, U. D. Giovannini, A. Rubio, and M. Nisoli, Nat. Commun. 13 , 7103 (2022). [58] M. Budden, T. Gebert, M. Buzzi, G. Jotzu, E. Wang, T. Matsuyama, G. Meier, Y. Laplace, D. Pontiroli, M. Ricc` o, F. Schlawin, D. Jaksch, and A. Cavalleri, Nat. Phys. 17 , 611–618 (2021). [59] L. Stojchevska, I. Vaskivskyi, T. Mertelj, P. Kusar, D. Svetin, S. Brazovskii, and D. Mihailovic, Science 344 ,177 (2014). [60] J. Maklar, J. Sarkar, S. Dong, Y. A. Gerasimenko, T. Pincelli, S. Beaulieu, P. S. Kirchmann, J. A. Sob-ota, S. Yang, D. Leuenberger, R. G. Moore, Z. X. Shen, M. Wolf, D. Mihailovic, R. Ernstorfer, and L. Rettig, Sci. Adv. 9, eadi4661 (2023). [61] Q. M. Liu, D. Wu, Z. A. Li, L. Y. Shi, Z. X. Wang, S. J. Zhang, T. Lin, T. C. Hu, H. F. Tian, J. Q. Li, T. Dong, and N. L. Wang, Nat. Commun. 12 , 2050 (2021). [62] G. Kresse and J. Furthm¨ uller, Phys. Rev. B 54 , 11169 (1996). [63] P. E. Bl¨ ochl, Phys. Rev. B 50 , 17953 (1994). [64] J. P. Perdew, A. Ruzsinszky, G. I. Csonka, O. A. Vydrov, G. E. Scuseria, L. A. Constantin, X. Zhou, and K. Burke, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 , 136406 (2008). [65] A. I. Liechtenstein, V. I. Anisimov, and J. Zaanen, Phys. Rev. B 52 , R5467 (1995). [66] L. Bellaiche and D. Vanderbilt, Phys. Rev. B 61 , 7877 (2000). [67] R. Trappen, A. C. Garcia-Castro, V. T. Tra, C.-Y. Huang, W. Ibarra-Hernandez, J. Fitch, S. Singh, J. Zhou, G. Cabrera, Y.-H. Chu, J. M. LeBeau, A. H. Romero, and M. B. Holcomb, Sci. Rep. 8, 14313 (2018). [68] H. J. Monkhorst and J. D. Pack, Phys. Rev. B 13 , 5188 (1976). [69] U. Herath, P. Tavadze, X. He, E. Bousquet, S. Singh, F. Mu˜ noz, and A. H. Romero, Computer Physics Com-munications 251 , 107080 (2020). [70] L. Hu, L. Q. Yu, P. Xiong, X. L. Wang, J. H. Zhao, L. F. Wang, Z. Huang, and W. B. Wu, Phys. Rev. B 97 ,214428 (2018). [71] S. Valencia, A. Gaupp, W. Gudat, L. Abad, L. Balcells, A. Cavallaro, B. Mart´ ınez, and F. J. Palomares, Phys. Rev. B 73 , 104402 (2006). [72] S. Grenier, J. P. Hill, V. Kiryukhin, W. Ku, Y. J. Kim, K. J. Thomas, S. W. Cheong, Y. Tokura, Y. Tomioka, D. Casa, and T. Gog, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 , 047203 (2005). [73] F. Weber, S. Rosenkranz, J. P. Castellan, R. Osborn, J. F. Mitchell, H. Zheng, D. Casa, J. H. Kim, and T. Gog, Phys. Rev. B. 82 , 085105 (2010). [74] T. Inami, T. Fukuda, J. Mizuki, S. Ishihara, H. Kondo, H. Nakao, T. Matsumura, K. Hirota, Y. Murakami, S. Maekawa, and Y. Endoh, Phys. Rev. B. 67 , 045108 (2003). [75] H. J. Lee, K. H. Kim, J. H. Jung, T. W. Noh, R. Surya-narayanan, G. Dhalenne, and A. Revcolevschi, Phys. Rev. B. 62 , 11320 (2000).