Title: 2604.04883v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.04883v1

Published Time: Tue, 07 Apr 2026 01:59:48 GMT

Number of Pages: 29

Markdown Content:
Topological surface states revealed by the Zeeman effect in 

## superconducting UTe 2

Zhen Zhu 1, Hans Christiansen 2, Yudi Huang 1, Kaiming Liu 1, Zheyu Wu 3, Shanta R. 

Saha 4, Johnpierre Paglione 4,5 , Alexander G. Eaton 3, Andrej Cabala 6, Michal Vališka 6,

Rafael M. Fernandes 1,7 , Andreas Kreisel 2,8, Brian M. Andersen 2, and Vidya 

Madhavan 1,5 *

1.  Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, Grainger College of 

Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana -Champaign, Urbana, IL, US A. 

2.  Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen, DK -2200 Copenhagen, Denmark. 

3.  Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United 

Kingdom. 

4.  Maryland Quantum Materials Center, Department of Physics, University of 

Maryland, Col lege Park, MD, USA. 

5.  Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

6.  Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Department of 

Condensed Matter Physics, Ke Karlovu 5, Prague 2, 121 16, Czech Republic. 

7.  Anthony J. Leggett Institute for Condensed Matter Theory, Grainger College of 

Engineering, University of Illi nois at Urbana -Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA. 

8.  Department of Physics and Astronomy, Uppsala University, Box 516, 751 20 

Uppsala, Sweden. 

## * vm1@illinois.edu 

## Abstract: 

Intrinsic topological superconductors with protected boundary modes obeying non -

Abelian statistics constitute a vanishingly small class of quantum materials. A defining 

spectroscopic signature of such phases is the presence of in -gap topological surface 

states (TSS). However, d espite extensive theoretical proposals, their unambiguous 

experimental identification has remained elusive. Here we use vector magnetic -field 

scanning tunnelling microscopy to obtain direct spectroscopic evidence of TSS in the 

spin -triplet superconductor U Te 2. Atomic -scale spectroscopy reveals striking site -

dependent superconductivity: Te sites host a large in -gap density of states that nearly 

fills the superconducting gap, whereas neighboring atomic sites remain gapped. Upon 

application of a magnetic field , the in -gap states on the Te sites are selectively 

suppressed, yielding a spatially homogeneous superconducting state with a markedly 

deeper gap relative to zero field. This site -selective gap evolution is in quantitative 

agreement with theoretical predic tions for TSS in UTe 2 that possess dominant Te -

orbital character. Spectral -function calculations incorporating the Zeeman coupling 

reproduce the observed magnetic -field response. Our results provide a spectroscopic 

fingerprint of the long -sought TSS in superconductors and establish UTe 2 as a 

compelling system for exploring intrinsic topological superconductivity. Main text: 

Odd -parity superconductors have emerged as promising platforms for realizing 

intrinsic topological supercon ductivity 1-3. In systems with inversion symmetry, odd -

parity pairing is tied to spin -triplet superconductivity, which under certain circumstances 

can host non -trivial topological states protected by time -reversal or crystalline 

symmetries. Among them are g apless surface states taking the form of Majorana 

cone s or Majorana flat -ban ds , which are composed of neutral Bogoliubov 

quasiparticles that are their own anti -quasiparticles 4-7. Such in -gap topological surface 

states (TSS) are robust against symmetry -pres erving perturbations. When the 

protecting symmetries are broken, a gap opens in the TSS, providing a direct signature 

of the nontrivial topology of the bulk superconducting phase. Despite the promise of 

topological superconductivity, only a small number of superconductors are believed to 

host odd -parity pairing 8,9 , making the experimental detection of TSS challenging. 

This scarcity of intrinsic candidate topological superconductors has led to extensive 

efforts to create engineered platforms for the explicit realization of Majorana modes. 

Most approaches have relied on heterostructures that combine spin –orbit coupling, 

magnetism, and proximity -induced superconductivity 10 -12. These platforms typically 

require fine tuning of multiple parameters, as exem plified by hybrid superconductor –

semiconductor nanowires 13 ,14 and topological insulator –superconductor 

heterostructures 15 -17 . In parallel, iron -based superconductors, in which s-wave 

superconductivity coexists with normal -state TSS, have been proposed as a single -

material platform for realizing Majorana modes via self -proximity effects 18 ,19 . However, 

across all three classes of systems discussed above, a magnetic field is necessary to 

induce these topological bound states and the bulk superconducting order parameter 

remains topologically trivial. 

The one exception is atomic chains assembled on superconducting substrates, which 

have been reported to host zero -energy end states suggestive of topological 

superconductivity 20,21 . Yet in these one -dimensional st ructures, the primary evidence 

for non -trivial topology relies on the observation of bound states localized at the chain 

ends. Given that these systems are composed of magnetic atoms and are inherently 

finite in length, conclusively establishing that the b ound states are topological, rather 

than trivial Yu –Shiba –Rusinov or finite -size hybridized states, remains challenging 22 .

By contrast, in intrinsic topological superconductors, the nontrivial topology arises 

directly from the bulk pairing symmetry, withou t the need for proximity effects or 

heterostructure engineering. In this case, the bulk –boundary correspondence applies 

in its most direct form, and robust topological surface states in three -dimensional 

systems are expected to emerge naturally in zero mag netic field. 

UTe 2, a strongly correlated superconductor with triplet pairing 23 ,24 , is considered a

promising candidate for realizing a topologically non -trivial superconducting phase. 

Topological superconductivity in strongly correlated systems is expected to arise from unconventional pairing interactions rather than a phonon -mediated mechanism, such 

as those driven by spin fluctuations 25 ,26 . These pairing interactions can be highly 

ani sotropic, which in turn can lead to nodal structures in the superconducting gap 7.

Such systems are known as nodal topological superconductors (n -TS), as exemplified 

by the A phase of the triplet superfluid 3He 27 ,28 . The boundary states in spin -triplet pair 

condensates arise from the odd -parity nature of the superconducting parameter. These 

states are protected by time -reversal symmetry such that the nodal points of the 

surface states can emerge from time -reversal -invariant -momenta of the surface 

Brillouin z one. Breaking of time -reversal symmetry will then lift the nodal points of the 

surface state s and alter the density of states (DOS) . The orthorhombic crystal structure 

of UTe 2 belongs to the D2h point group, whose irreducible representations allow four 

symmetry -distinct triplet pairing states, A1u, B1u, B2u, and B3u, with the latter three 

exhibiting nodal gap structures. Recent thermal transport and specific heat 

measurements are consistent with the presence of nodes in its superconducting order 

parameter 29 -31 . In n -TS such as the B2u and B3u pairing symmetries of UTe 26, 32 ,33 ,

additional imprints of the surface states emerge from the surface projected bulk nodes, 

leading to spectral features remin iscent of Fermi arc states in Weyl semimetals 34 ,35 .

The bulk –boundary correspondence implies that the presence of TSS constitutes a 

definitive fingerprint of topological superconductivity, but accessing such states 

requires probes that are intrinsically s ensitive to surface electronic properties. More 

importantly, establishing that non -trivial topology underlies the presence of in -gap 

quasiparticles remains extremely challenging. Previous spectroscopic measurements 

have revealed a substantial residual DOS within the superconducting gap of UTe 236 ,37 .

However, the microscopic origin of these in -gap states has remained elusive, as they 

may arise from non -trivial effects such as TSS or trivial effects including pair -breaking 

disorder. In this work, we address this challenge by examining the magnetic field 

response of the site -resolved superconducting gap at the atomic scale. Using vector -

magnetic -field scanning tunnelling microscopy and spectroscopy (STM/STS), we 

uncover a site -selective suppression of the sub -gap spectral weight that originates 

from Zeeman coupling of the TSS, thereby providing a smoking -gun signature of non -

trivial topology in superconducting UTe 2.

The cleaved surface of a UTe 2 crystal grown by the molten salt flux 38 (MSF) method 

(Tc = 2.1 K) is shown in Fig. 1a. The surface is characterized by a quasi -one -

dimensional arrangement of Te atoms (henceforth called chains) along the 

crystallographic a-axis (i.e., the [100] direction). We denote the in -plane direction 

perpendicular to the c hains and the out -of -plane direction as the c*- and b*- axes, 

respectively, reflecting their ~24° rotation with respect to the crystallographic c- and b-

axes 39 . Figure 1b presents the height profile extracted along the dashed line in Fig. 1a, 

and the corresponding d I/ dV line cut reveals a pronounced spatial modulation of the 

superconducting gap (Fig. 1c). Establishing the atomic registry in real space enables 

us to resolve the superconducting gap distribution on different atomic sites. The chains 

observed in the topography, identified either by their elevated apparent height 36 or by dominant spectral weight near the Fermi level 40 , can arise from Te1 or Te2 atoms, 

whereas the interchain sites consistently include U atoms (see Supplementary Fig. 1 

for details). Based on this assignment, we define three representative atomic sites 

(marked in Fig. 1a): ‘Te’, corresponding to Te atoms on the chains; ‘b -Te’, 

correspondi ng to positions between adjacent Te atoms along the chain direction on the 

surface, and ‘U’ corresponding to the interchain sites. Their spatial arrangement, 

revealed in the height profile (Fig. 1b), aligns with their spectroscopic contrast: U sites 

occupy the valleys and exhibit deep superconducting gaps, whereas Te and b -Te sites 

appear at higher elevations and show much shallower gaps with enhanced sub -gap 

spectral weight, consistent with previous reports 36 . This allows us to associate the 

peaks and vall eys in the topography with different atomic sites and the site -dependent 

gaps, as shown in Figs. 1b and c. 

To gain microscopic insights into the superconducting gap distribution of UTe 2, we 

obtained spatially resolved tunnelling spectra (i.e., d I/ dV map) over a 3 × 3 nm 2 field of 

view sampled on a 32 × 32 grid (Fig. 1d), achieving ~1 Å spatial resolution, which is 

sufficient to resolve atomic -scale variations of the gap. Figure 1e shows the 

superconducting gap averaged over all spectra acquired within the measured region ,

exhibiting a substantial residual DOS at the Fermi level and a gap magnitude of ±0.25 

mV. We find that the STM -measured residual DOS within the superconducting gap in 

our MSF -grown samples ( Tc = 2.1 K) is similar to samples grown by chemic al vapor 

transport (CVT) with a lower Tc of 1.6K 36 ,37 , as shown in the Supplementary Fig. 2. 

Conversely, transport measurements show a much smaller residual resistivity ratio in 

the MSF -grown crystals 41 ,42 than in CVT -grown 23 . This suggests that the residual DOS 

within the gap is not a consequence of pair -breaking disorder, but an intrinsic feature 

of the electronic structure of UTe 2. By identifying the Te, b -Te, and U sites from the 

peaks and valleys in the topography acquired simultaneously with the dI/ dV map 

(Supplementary Fig. 3), we extract and average the corresponding spectra to obtain 

representative superconducting gaps at each of the three sites (Fig. 1f) . Similar to the 

linecut in Fig.1c, we find that the in -gap residual DOS is the largest at the Te site (i.e., 

extremely shallow gaps), smaller at the b -Te site, and the smallest at the U site (i.e., 

deepest gaps). 

Given the triplet character of the pairing state, a natural candidate to explain the 

intrinsic and distinct in -gap spectral weigh t associated with different atomic species is 

a TSS. Indeed, the existence of TSS in UTe 2 with B2u and B3u triplet -pairing symmetry 

has been theoretically proposed by multiple groups 6, 32 ,43 -45 . Taking the B2u state as an 

example, we calculated the surface DOS for Te and U. Our spectral function 

calculations reveal that the TSS residing within the superconducting gap are 

dominated by Te -derived states (Fig. 1g). Thus, the resulting calculated DOS of Te 

exhibits a more suppressed gap than that of U (Fig. 1h), consistent with our 

experimental data. 

To obtain further evidence for non -trivial topology in the superconducting phase of UTe 2,we study the response of the in -gap states to magnetic fields. Owing to their helical 

nature, the TSS in UTe 2 are expected t o exhibit a distinctive magnetic -field response 

that serves as a key spectroscopic fingerprint of their existence 46 -48 . The spin degree 

of freedom couples to the magnetic field via the Zeeman effect, which breaks time -

reversal symmetry and thus transforms the surface state from massless to massive by 

opening a gap at the crossing point. The Zeeman effect, governed by the energy scale 

of ~ gμBB (where μB is the Bohr magneton and g is the gyromagnetic ratio), typically 

manifests at low energies and requires ultrahigh energy resolution for spectroscopic 

detection, rendering such measurements experimentally challenging. To probe this 

subtle spectroscopic signature, we track the magnetic -field dependence of the 

superconducting gap in UTe 2 across differe nt strengths and directions, aiming to 

confirm the topological nature of the in -gap states and further constrain the underlying 

pairing symmetry. 

We first investigate the evolution of the spatially averaged superconducting gap under 

magnetic fields applie d along the a-axis. Figure 2a displays the averaged gaps over 

all sites obtained from a series of maps acquired under the indicated magnetic fields, 

all measured over the same defect -free region with identical tunneling conditions and 

grid resolution (see Fig. 1d). As the field increases, the residual DOS at the Fermi level 

is rapidly suppressed, manifested by a deeper gap with sharper coherence peaks. The 

field -induced gap deepening saturates around 0.65 T and starts to weaken above 0.8 

T. Figure 2b provid es a clearer visualization of the field -dependent evolution of the 

superconducting gaps using the same dataset as in Fig. 2a and confirms that the gap 

size remains nearly unchanged with magnetic field. 

To quantitatively capture the gap evolution, we defi ne the ‘gap depth’ αd as the average 

of αd+ and αd-, where αd± represents the difference in DOS between the coherence peak 

at positive (negative) bias and the gap minimum (see 0 T spectrum in Fig. 2a). Using 

this definition, we extract the gap depth under different magnetic fields and summarize 

the results in Fig. 2c. The gap depth increases with field, reaching a maximum of more 

than twice the zero -field value at 0.8 T, before gradually decreasing. 

To clarify the origin of this unconventional gap respons e, we first assess and rule out 

possible contributions from local in -plane vortices. A magnetic field applied along the 

a-axis (B// a) is expected to align vortices in the same direction, with an estimated 

spacing of ~50 nm at 0.8 T, which would typically r esult in a spatial modulation of the 

superconducting gap depth of the order of this spacing. dI/ dV linecuts taken 

perpendicular to the a-axis and spanning 80 nm (Fig. 2d) under the indicated magnetic 

fields are shown in Fig. 2e, while the corresponding ave rage gaps extracted from the 

linecuts are shown in Fig. 2f. As previously observed in Fig. 1c , the superconducting 

gap exhibits nanoscale inhomogeneity at zero field . Under magnetic fields applied 

along both the B// a and B// -a, the gaps deepen across the entire field of view, 

accompanied by enhanced coherence peaks and without any detectable vortex -

related features (such as an increase in the zero -bias DOS). The lack of detectable vortices is not surprising since vortices created by an in -plane field m ay occur far from 

the surface. Based on these data and our theory, a simple hypothesis is that the gap 

deepening induced by a magnetic field along the a-axis, in the absence of any periodic 

variation expected from vortex formation, originates from the magn etic -field induced 

gapping of the TSS in UTe 2. This hypothesis is substantiated by site -resolved spectra, 

as shown below. 

By extracting and averaging the spectra measured at the Te, b -Te, and U sites from 

dI/ dV maps taken under magnetic fields applied along the a-axis (see details in 

Supplementary Fig. 3), we resolve the site -dependent evolution of the superconducting 

gaps (Fig. 3a). Consistent with our theoretical calculations, which indicate that the TSS 

has p rimarily Te -orbital character, we observe the most pronounced response on the 

Te sites, where the spectra evolve from a shallow suppression to a deep, well -defined 

gap with sharp coherence peaks as the field increases. While the b -Te sites exhibit a 

compar able but attenuated gap evolution, the response is markedly weaker on the U 

sites. This phenomenology is consistently reproduced across different combinations of 

samples and tips (Supplementary Fig. 4). The gap inhomogeneity across different 

atomic sites d iminishes with increasing field and becomes nearly uniform at high fields, 

indicative of a more homogeneous superconducting state. This trend is further 

supported by the extracted gap depths under different fields (Fig. 3b), which confirm 

not only that the field -induced gap enhancement is the strongest on Te sites, but also 

that all three sites converge to nearly the same gap depth in the range from 0.8 T to 

0.95 T. 

To visualize the evolution of the superconducting gap under magnetic field in real 

space, we extract and plot the gap depth for each spectrum in our maps as a function 

of field. Figure 3c displays the gap depth map at zero field, revealing a prominent 

modulation, with the minimum gap depth located at the Te sites and the maximum at 

the U sites. Upon applying a 0.65 T field along th e a-axis , the overall gap depth 

increases and becomes markedly more uniform across the field of view (Fig. 3d). This 

is further supported by datasets at other fields presented in Supplementary Fig. 5. The 

corresponding difference map, obtained by subtracting the zero -field gap depth map 

from that at 0.65 T, reveals that the enhancement is primarily concentrated along the 

Te chains, particularly at the Te sites (Fig. 3e). A more detailed view of the local spectral 

evolut ion was obtained by acquiring high -resolution d I/ dV line cuts along the same 

trajectory shown in Fig. 1a under varying fields (Fig. 3f). With increasing field, the DOS 

at the Fermi level on the Te chains is progressively suppressed, consistent with the 

obs erved enhancement of the gap depth. 

Combining the above real -space imaging of superconducting gap variations, we 

identify the enhanced gap depth around Te sites as a direct Zeeman -induced response 

of the TSS in UTe 2. For a relativistic g-factor of 2, the Zeeman energy reaches 

approximately 0.1 meV at 0.8 T, which is comparable to the energy scale of the 

superconducting gap (Δ ≈ 0.25 meV). The fact that the most pronounced gap enhancement occurs at Te sites further supp orts the scenario that the TSS is 

dominated by Te orbital weights, in agreement with our theoretical calculations. 

Moreover, the gap size on the U sites primarily reflects the underlying bulk 

superconductivity of UTe 2, as they contribute minimally to the T SS and exhibit 

negligible variation with magnetic field. At high magnetic fields, the conductance 

spectra on Te and b -Te sites converge to that of the U sites, implying that only the 

surface states are gapped out by the field, while the bulk superconductiv ity remains 

unaffected (Fig. 3a). 

The Zeeman effect is expected to manifest under magnetic fields applied along 

different directions. To explore this , we apply the magnetic field along the c*-axis, which 

lies within the cleavage plane but is perpendicula r to the Te chains (Fig. 1a). Under this 

configuration, a similar signature of Zeeman -induced gap evolution is observed even 

in the presence of an in -plane vortex. We obtain dI/ dV maps both with and without a 

magnetic field over the same measurement region (dashed box in Fig. 4a), which 

contains numerous defects concentrated near the center, likely serving as pinning 

centers for the in -plane vortices induced by the applied magnetic field. As shown in 

Supplementary Fig. 6a , the zero -bias d I/ dV map reveals DOS modulations at zero field .

To isolate magnetic field effects from this intrinsic spatial variation, we average the 

spectra along the c*-axis at each point of the map, yielding the integrated d I/dV line 

cut shown in Fig. 4 b, where a superco nducting gap is visible throughout the entire 

mapped region . Upon applying a 0.8 T magnetic field along the c* direction , the 

integrated dI/ dV line cut (Fig. 4 c, see Supplementary Fig . 6b for the zero b ias dI/ dV

map ) reveals a zero -energy vortex bound stat e extending over ~40 nm along the a-

axis , corresponding to a Ginzburg –Landau coherence length of ξ ≈ 20 nm, in 

agreement with previous out -of -plane vortex results 49 . Because of the defect -induced 

vortex pinning, a similar in -plane vortex is observed in the same region under a 0.8 T 

field applied along the -c* direction (Fig. 4 d). 

We now compare spectra taken on Te sites at spatially identical locations (see details 

in Supplementary Fig. 7). Spectra obtained at the vortex core and on both sides of the 

core are analyzed separately. As shown in Fig. 4 e, the averaged superconducting gap 

at the Te sites continues to deepen on both sides of the vortex under magnetic field 

(upper and lower panels), regardless of field direction, similar to the response observed 

for fields applied along the a-axis . Mean while , zero -energy bound states emerge at the 

vortex core (middle panel). The gap deepening under fields applied along the c*-axis 

also originates from the Zeeman response of the TSS in UTe 2, but is weaker than the 

response under fields along the a-axis of the same magnitude. This behavior may 

originate from g-factor anisotropy inherent to systems with low crystalline symmetry ,

such as the orthorhombic UTe 2. As a result, the Zeeman coupling becomes direction 

dependent, leading to anisotropic responses in the quasiparticle spectrum. Moreover, 

because of the low -symmetry of the crystal, all the components of t he d -vectors 

characterizing the B2u and B3u triplet states are non -zero, which ensures that the TSS 

responds to fields applied along any direction. As a final check we apply an out -of -plane field, which in our case corresponds to the b* -axis. The Zeeman re sponse of the 

TSS is also evident on one side of the vortex under an out -of -plane magnetic field 

(Supplementary Fig. 8), as reported in recent studies 49 -51 . The spatial asymmetry in 

response to an out -of -plane field is intriguing but beyond the scope of this work. 

The field -induced response of the superconducting gap is captured by introducing a 

Zeeman term into the spectral function calculations in a mode l containing electronic 

states originating from U atoms and Te atoms. Within this framework, we simulate the 

evolution of TSS for B2u pairing symmetry under a magnetic field applied along the a-

axis (Figs. 5a -c). When time -reversal symmetry is broken by th e Zeeman field, the Te -

dominated TSS become gapped, reflecting the lifting of Kramers degeneracy and the 

resulting mass acquisition of the surface quasiparticles. In contrast, the U -derived band 

remains largely unaffected, consistent with its weaker coupli ng to the field and its more 

bulk -like character. With increasing magnetic field strength, the Zeeman -induced gap 

in the Te -derived surface states grows systematically, leading to a pronounced 

redistribution of low -energy spectral weight. The integrated DO S for Te and U, shown 

in Figs. 5d -f, captures the response of the superconducting gap under Zeeman 

coupling. Specifically, the Te -derived DOS develops a pronounced superconducting 

gap with increasing field, consistent with the experimental observations. A similar effect 

is obtained in simulations for UTe 2 with B3u pairing symmetry (Supplementary Fig. 9), 

indicating the robustness of Zeeman -driven responses for the in -gap TSS. 

Our study provides direct spectroscopic evidence for the presence of TSS in UTe 2,

revealing a field -induced deepening of the superconducting gap that is strongly site -

dependent and most pronounced at the Te atom sites. This observation is consistent 

with theoretical predictions that the TSS possess dominant Te -orbital character in the 

triplet superconducting state. The gap response persists under different magnetic field 

orientations, highlighting the robustness of the surface state response. 

Complementary spectral function calculations incorporating Zeeman terms reproduce 

the experimen tal trends and further support the topological origin of the observed 

modulation. Taken together, these findings establish the Zeeman sensitivity of TSS in 

UTe 2 and demonstrate an effective approach for spectroscopically probing their 

topological nature. T hey also provide stringent constraints on the underlying pairing 

symmetry and advance the identification of bulk topological superconductivity in 

strongly correlated systems. Finally, they reveal a little -explored intertwining between 

topological states an d the spatial inhomogeneity of the superconducting gap, which 

should be present in other multi -orbital triplet superconductors. References: 

1. Sato, M. Topological odd -parity superconductors. Phys. Rev. B 81 , 220504 (2010). 

2. Sato, M. & Ando, Y. Topological superconductors: a review. Rep. Prog. Phys. 80 ,

076501 (2017). 

3. Fu, L. & Berg, E. Odd -parity topological superconductors: theory and application 

to Cu xBi 2Se 3. Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 , 097001 (2010). 

4. Hsieh, T. H. & Fu, L. Majorana fermions and exoti c surface Andreev bound states 

in topological superconductors: Application to Cu xBi 2Se 3. Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 ,

107005 (2012). 

5. Ishizuka, J., Sumita, S., Daido, A. & Yanase, Y. Insulator -metal transition and 

topological superconductivity in UTe 2 from a first -principles calculation. Phys. Rev. 

Lett. 123 , 217001 (2019) .

6. Røis ing, H. S., Geier, M., Kreisel, A. & Andersen, B. M. Thermodynamic transitions 

and topology of spin -triplet superconductivity: Application to UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 

109 , 054521 (2024). 

7. Schnyder, A. P. & Brydon, P. M. R. Topological surface states in nodal 

superconductors. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 27 , 243201 (2015). 

8. Tou, H. et al. Odd -parity superconductivity with parallel spin pairing in UPt 3:

evidence from 195 Pt Knight shift study. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 1374 (1996). 

9. Matano, K., Kriener, M., Segawa, K., Ando, Y. & Zheng, G. -q. Spin -rotation 

symmetry breaking in the superconducting state of Cu xBi 2Se 3. Nat. Phys. 12 , 852 

(2016). 

10. Fu, L. & Kane, C. L. Superconducting proximity effect and M ajorana fermions at the 

surface of a topological insulator. Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 , 096407 (2008). 

11. Lutchyn, R. M., Sau, J. D. & Das Sarma, S. Majorana fermions and a topological phase 

transition in semiconductor –superconductor heterostructures. Phys. Rev. Le tt. 105 ,

077001 (2010). 

12. Nadj -Perge, S., Drozdov, I. K., Bernevig, B. A. & Yazdani, A. Proposal for realizing 

Majorana fermions in chains of magnetic atoms on a superconductor. Phys. Rev. B 88 ,

020407(R) (2013). 

13. Mourik, V. et al. Signatures of Majorana ferm ions in hybrid superconductor –

semiconductor nanowire devices. Science 336 , 1003 (2012). 

14. Das, A. et al. Zero -bias peaks and splitting in an Al –InAs nanowire topological 

superconductor as a signature of Majorana fermions. Nat. Phys. 8, 887 (2012). 

15. Wang, M. -X. et al. The coexistence of superconductivity and topological order in the 

Bi 2Se 3 thin films. Science 336 , 52 (2012). 

16. Sun, H. -H. et al. Majorana z ero mode detected with spin -selective Andreev reflection 

in the vortex of a topological superconductor. Phys. Rev. Lett. 116 , 257003 (2016). 

17. Liu, T. et al. Signatures of hybridization of multiple Majorana zero modes in a vortex. 

Nature 633 , 71 (2024). 

18. Zhan g, P. et al. Observation of topological superconductivity on the surface of an iron -

based superconductor. Science 360 , 182 (2018). 

19. Wang, D. et al. Evidence for Majorana bound states in an iron -based superconductor. Science 362 , 333 (2018).                    

> 20. Nadj -Perge, S. e t al. Observation of Majorana fermions in ferromagnetic atomic chains
> on a superconductor. Science 346 , 602 (2014).
> 21. Jeon, S. et al. Distinguishing aMajorana zero mode using spin -resolved
> measurements. Science 358 , 772 (2017).
> 22. Schneider, L. et al. Precurso rs of Majorana modes and their length -dependent energy
> oscillations probed at both ends of atomic Shiba chains. Nat. Nanotechnol. 17 , 384
> (2022).

23. Ran, S. et al. Nearly ferromagnetic spin -triplet superconductivity. Science 365 , 684 

(2019). 

24. Aoki, D. et al. Unconventional superconductivity in heavy fermion UTe 2. J. Phys. 

Soc. Jpn 88 , 043702 (2019). 

25. Leggett, A. J. A theoretical description of the new phases of liquid 3He. Rev. Mod. 

Phys. 47 , 331 (1975); erratum 48 , 357 (1976). 

26. Scalapino , D. J. A common thread: The pairing interaction for unconventional 

superconductors. Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 , 1383 (2012). 

27. Volovik, G. E. Field theory in superfluid ³He: What are the lessons for particle 

physics, gravity, and high -temperature superconductivity? Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. 

USA 96 , 6042 (1999). 

28. Volovik, G. E. The Universe in a Helium Droplet (Oxford Univ. Press, 2009). 

29. Hayes, I. M. et al. Robust nodal behavior in the thermal conductivity of 

superconducting UTe 2. Phys. Rev. X 15 , 021029 (2025). 

30. Hayes, I . M. et al. Field -angle -resolved heat transport in UTe 2: determination of 

nodal positions in the superconducting order parameter. Preprint at 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.13877  (2025). 

31. Totsuka, K. et al. No dal superconductivity of UTe 2 probed by field -angle -resolved 

specific heat on a crystal with T c = 2.1 K. J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 95 , 034709 (2026). 

32. Shishidou, T., Suh, H. G., Brydon, P. M. R., Weinert, M. & Agterberg, D. F. 

Topological band and superconductivity in UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 103 , 104504 (2021). 

33. Yu, Y., Madhavan, V. & Raghu, S. Majorana fermion arcs and the local density of 

states of UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 105 , 174520 (2022). 

34. Armitage, N. P., Mele, E. J. & Vishwanath, A. Weyl and Dirac semime tals in 

three -dimensional solids. Rev. Mod. Phys. 90 , 015001 (2018). 

35. Xu, S. -Y. et al. Discovery of a Weyl fermion semimetal and topological Fermi arcs. 

Science 349 , 613 (2015). 

36. Jiao, L. et al. Chiral superconductivity in heavy -fermion metal UTe 2. Nature 579 ,

523 (2020). 

37. Gu, Q. et al. Detection of a pair density wave state in UTe 2. Nature 618 , 921 (2023). 

38. Eaton, A. G. et al. Quasi -2D Fermi surface in the anomalous superconductor UTe 2.

Nat. Commun. 15 , 223 (2024). 

39. Aishwarya, A. et al. Magnetic -field -sensiti ve charge density waves in the 

superconductor UTe 2. Nature 618 , 928 (2023) .

40. Theuss, F. et al. Single -component superconductivity in UTe 2 at ambient pressure. 

Nat. Phys. 20 , 1124 (2024). 41. Aoki, D. Molten salt flux liquid transport method for ultra clean sing le crystals UTe 2.

J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 93 , 043703 (2024). 

42. Wu, Z. et al. Enhanced triplet superconductivity in next -generation ultraclean UTe 2.

Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 121 , e2403067121 (2024). 

43. Christiansen, H., Geier, M., Andersen, B. M. & Kreisel, A. Nod al superconducting 

gap structure and topological surface states of UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 112 , 054510 

(2025). 

44. Ishizuka, J. & Yanase, Y. Periodic Anderson model for magnetism and 

superconductivity in UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 103 , 094504 (2021). 

45. Tei, J., Mizushima, T. & Fujimoto, S. Pairing symmetries of multiple 

superconducting phases in UTe 2: Competition between ferromagnetic and 

antiferromagnetic fluctuations. Phys. Rev. B 109 , 064516 (2024). 

46. Qi, X. -L., Hughes, T. L. & Zhang, S. -C. Topological field the ory of time -reversal 

invariant insulators. Phys. Rev. B 78 , 195424 (2008). 

47. Garate, I. & Franz, M. Inverse spin –galvanic effect in the interface between a 

topological insulator and a ferromagnet. Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 , 146802 (2010). 

48. Yu, R. et al. Quantized anomalous Hall effect in magnetic topological insulators. 

Science 329 , 61 (2010). 

49. Yang, Z. et al. Spectroscopic evidence of symmetry breaking in the 

superconducting vortices of UTe 2. Natl Sci Rev 12 , nwaf267 (2025). 

50. Yin, R. et al. Yin -Yang vortex on UTe 2 (011) surface. Preprint at 

https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.21506  (2025). 

51. Sharma, N. et al. Observation of persistent zero modes and superconducting 

vortex doublets in UTe 2. ACS Nano 19 , 31539 (2025). Methods 

Single crystals of UTe 2 grown by a molten flux method were used. The growth and 

characterization are mentioned in detail elsewhere 38 . The STM measurements were 

performed using a Unisoku STM system operating under ultra -high vacuum and 

equipped with a vector magnetic field ( Hx:4T, Hy:1T, Hz:9T). The UTe 2 single crystals 

were cleaved in -situ at about 90 K and then transferred immediately into the STM head. 

All the measurements were carried out at 300 mK using tungsten tips treated with in 

situ heating. dI/d V signals were acquired by a standard lock -in ampl ifier with 

modulation of 40 μV at 991 Hz. 

Acknowledgments: STM studies at the University of Illinois, Urbana -Champaign were 

supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy 

Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering D ivision under award number DE -

SC0022101. V.M. acknowledges partial support from Gordon and Betty More 

Foundation’s EPiQS Initiative through grant GBMF4860 and the Quantum Materials 

Program at CIFAR where she is a Fellow. A. K. acknowledges support by the D anish 

National Committee for Research Infrastructure (NUFI) through the ESS -Lighthouse 

Q-MAT. H. C. acknowledges support from the Novo Nordisk Foundation Grant No. 

NNF20OC0060019. A.G.E. acknowledges support from the Henry Royce Institute for 

Advanced Mate rials through the Equipment Access Scheme enabling access to the 

Advanced Materials Characterization Suite at Cambridge, grant numbers 

EP/P024947/1, EP/M000524/1 & EP/R00661X/1; and from Sidney Sussex College 

(University of Cambridge). M.V and A.C. acknowl edge support by the Czech Science 

Foundation GAČR under the Junior Star Grant No. 26 -21795M (STiUS). Crystals were 

grown and characterized in MGML (mgml.eu), which is supported within the program 

of Czech Research Infrastructures (project No. LM2023065). Research at the 

University of Maryland was supported by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation’s 

EPiQS Initiative Grant No. GBMF9071, the NIST Center for Neutron Research, and 

the Maryland Quantum Materials Center. 

Author contributions: Z.Z. and V.M. conce ived the experiments. Z.W., S.R.S., J.P., 

A.G.E., A.C. and M.V. provided the characterized single crystals. Z.Z., Y.H. and K.L. 

obtained the STM data. Z.Z., Y.H. and V.M. carried out the analysis and H.C., R.M.F., 

A.K., and B.M.A. provided the theoretical input on the interpretation of the data. Z.Z., 

and V.M. wrote the paper with input from all authors. 

Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interest. Figures: 

Figure 1 | Spatially modulated superconducting gap and surface -state 

distribution of UTe 2. a. Atomic -resolution images acquired on the surface of UTe 2.

The one -dimensional chains formed by Te atoms are oriented along the 

crystallographic a-axis (V=10 mV, I=100 pA ). The red triangles, yellow circles, and blue 

squares represent the three representative sites: Te, b -Te (between Te atoms), and U, 

respectively. Scale bar, 1nm. b. Height profile extracted along the dashed line in a. The 

peaks correspond to the Te and b -Te sites, while the valleys are associated with the U 

sites. c. dI/d V line cut taken along the same dashed line in a. A superconducting gap 

opens at the Fermi level, appearing deeper on U sites with lower DOS (darker blue) 

and shallower on Te sites with hi gher DOS (lighter blue). d. Schematic illustration of 

spatially resolved maps. A spatial map of the superconducting gap was obtained by 

measuring d I/dV spectra on a 32 × 32 grid over a 3 nm × 3 nm region (same as a). e.

Gap spectrum obtained by averaging a ll spectra from the d I/d V map measured over 

the region shown in d. A large residual DOS is revealed at the Fermi energy, 

accompanied by coherence peaks located at ±0.25 mV ( V=1 mV, I=100 pA). f. Site -

resolved superconducting gaps on Te, b -Te, and U sites. Gap spectra, averaged over 

three representative site categories across the d I/d V map, reveal a progressive 

reduction of zero -bias DOS from Te (pink) to b -Te (yellow) to U (navy), reflecting the 

spatial inhomogeneity of the superconducting state ( V=1 mV, I=100 pA). g. Calculated 

spectral functions for the B2u triplet phase of UTe 2. The topological surface states are 

dominated by Te weight. h. Simulated DOS versus energy for the superconducting B2u

phase. The enhanced Te -derived DOS within the superconducting gap arises from 

surface states. Figure 2 | Evolution of the overall superconducting gap under magnetic field s

along the a-axis . a. Superconducting gaps acquired under the indicated magnetic 

fields. Each gap was obtained by averaging all spectra in the corresponding dI/d V map 

acquired from the same area ( V=1 mV, I=100 pA ), following the procedure shown in 

Fig. 1d. The superconducting g aps become deeper and the coherence peaks sharpen 

with increasing field, reaching saturation around 0.65 T and subsequently weakening 

above 0.8 T . The difference in DOS between the coherence peak at positive (negative) 

bias and the gap minimum is defined a s αd+ (αd-), and the gap depth αd is defined as 

the average: ( αd+ + αd-)/2. b. Color map representation of the spectra shown in a. The 

gap size remains nearly unchanged with field, whereas the gap depth exhibits a 

pronounced field -induced enhancement. c. Magnetic -field dependence of the gap 

depth αd. The depth increases by up to 2.5 times its zero -field value under a magnetic 

field. d. Large -area topography (80 nm × 5 nm) of UTe 2 (V=40 mV, I=20 pA). e.  dI/dV

line cuts acquired along the same dashed line in d under the indicated magnetic fields. 

The superconducting gap displays spatial inhomogeneity between atomic sites at zero 

field.  Upon applying 0.8 T along the ±a directions , the overall gap depth shows uni form 

enhancement across the large area, with no apparent in -plane vortices observed 

(V=1 mV, I=100 pA ). f. Averaged spectra from line cuts in e under the corresponding 

fields. The spectra measured under 0.8 T along the a (orange) and the -a direct ions 

(gre en) exhibit nearly identical gap deepening compared to the zero -field spectrum 

(blue). Figure 3 | Field -induced gapping of topological surface states. a. Site -resolved 

superconducting gaps acquired under the indicated magnetic fields. The spectra at 

each site were extracted from d I/d V maps and subsequently averaged. The gap 

averaged at the Te sites deepens markedly with increasing field, evolves more 

gradu ally at the b -Te sites, and changes only slightly at the U sites, while at high fields 

all three gaps become nearly identical ( V=1 mV, I=100 pA). b. Evolution of the 

averaged gap depth at different sites. The gap depth increases with field at all three 

loc ations, with a rate inversely correlated with their distance from the Te atoms. At high 

fields, the gap depth saturates and reaches similar values across all sites. c. Gap depth 

map at 0T. The gap depth exhibits a lattice -modulated variation in real space, with the 

minimum depth at the Te sites and the maximum at the U sites. Scale bar, 1 nm. d.

Gap depth map at 0.65 T. The gap becomes uniformly enhanced across the area, in 

contrast to the spatial inhomogeneity observed at zero field. e. Difference map of t he 

gap depth between 0.65 T and 0 T. The field -induced enhancement of the gap depth is 

most prominent on the Te sites, indicating that the topological surface states are 

gapped out under magnetic field. f. dI/dV line cuts acquired along the dashed line in 

Fig. 1a under the indicated magnetic fields, together with the corresponding extracted 

gap depths. The spatial inhomogeneity of the superconducting gap weakens 

progressively with increasing field and eventually becomes uniform (V=1 mV, 

I=100 pA). Figur e 4 | Anisotropic response of topological surface states under magnetic 

field s along the c*-axis. a. Large -area topography (6 nm × 85 nm) with numerous 

defects concentrated in the center ( V=40 mV, I=20 pA). b. dI/dV line cut obtained by 

averaging the spectra along the c*-axis from the dI/d V map acquired over the dashed -

box region in a under zero field (V=1 mV, I=100 pA) . A superconducting gap is visible 

along the entire line cut, showing suppression in the central region due to defect -bound 

states. c, d, Same as b, but  acquired  under 0.8 T applied along the c* and -c* directions ,

respectively . In-plane vortices appears at nearly the same location (central dashed 

box es ), each exhibiting a zero -energy vortex bound state (V=1 mV, I=100 pA) . e.

Averaged spectra of Te sites extracted from the d I/ dV maps corresponding to the 

dashed -box regions marked in b-d, under the indicated magnetic fields (V=1 mV, 

I=100 pA) . The superconducting gap deepens on both sides of the vortex under a 

magnetic field (upper and lower panels) , while a pronounced zero -energy peak 

emerges at the vortex core (middle panel) .Figure 5 | Zeeman effect on the topological surface states of UTe 2. a -c. Spectral 

functions of Te and U in the B2u triplet superconducting phase with the indicated 

Zeeman energy. The topological surface states dominated by Te are gradually gapped 

out by the Zeeman effect. d-f. Integrated DOS versus energy corresponding to a-c. As 

the Zeeman energy increases, the Te -de rived sub -gap DOS associated with the 

topological surface states becomes suppressed. Supplementary Information for 

## Topological surface states revealed by the Zeeman effect in 

## superconducting UTe 2

Table of Contents 

Supplementary Notes: 

Theoretical modelling of the topological surface states in UTe 2

Supplementary Information Figures: 

SI1: Cleave plane assignment and site -dependent superconducting gap distribution in 

UTe 2.

SI2: Comparison of the superconducting gaps in UTe 2 crystals grown by molten salt flux 

(MSF) and chemical vapor transport (CVT) .

SI3: Real -space identification of Te, b -Te, and U sites in dI/d V maps under magnetic field s

along the a-axis. 

SI4: Field -induced gap deepening in sample#2 with different tip s under magnetic field s

along the a-axis. 

SI5: Gap depth maps under magnetic field s along the a-axis. 

SI 6: Zero -bias d I/d V maps acquired under magnetic fields along the c*-axis. 

SI 7: Real -space identification of Te sites in selected dI/d V map regions under magnetic 

field s along the c*-axis. 

SI 8: Out -of -plane vortex on the UTe 2 surface under magnetic field along the b* -axis. 

SI 9: Zeeman effect on the topological surface s tates of UTe 2 in B3u triplet phase. Supplementary Notes: 

Theoretical modelling of the topological surface states 

The starting point of the theoretical modelling of the topological surface states and their 

response to Zeeman fields is a tight -binding model based on DFT calculations and 

consistent with recent quantum oscillation measurements 1. This model describes the 

electronic structure near the Fermi energy in the bulk of the system. The superconducting 

triplet pairing with either B 2u or B 3u symmetry is captured by including lowest -order 

superconducting pairing terms consistent with the symmetries of the system and a quasi -

particle spectrum exhibiting point nodes, the details of which are described in Ref. 2.

In our STM mea surements, we cannot determine whether the quasi -one -dimensional 

chains observed in the topography originate from Te1 or Te2 atoms. Although DFT 

calculations indicate that the density of states near the Fermi level is dominated by Te2 1,

the Wannier functio ns evaluated in the vacuum exhibit a larger amplitude above Te1 than 

above Te2 3. Therefore, under small -bias tunneling conditions, the topographic contrast is 

more likely associated with Te1 sites, whereas the measured low -energy tunneling spectra 

predomin antly probe the Te2 -derived density of states at the Fermi level. 

The (0 1-1) surface plane, spanned by the (100) and the (011) directions, is misaligned with 

the conventional unit cell of the crystal. The surface, therefore, presents a non -trivial cross -

section of the unit cell. To properly capture the electronic properties on the surface, we 

therefore first transform to a unit cell that aligns with the surface plane. In this new 

coordinate system, we partition the bulk Hamiltonian in terms of a set of pri ncipal layers 

such that the first layer corresponds to the surface plane. We then use an iterative Green’s 

function technique 4 to obtain the surface Green’s functions (SGF) 2.

Assuming translation invariance on the surface, the SGF is diagonal in the momen ta 𝑘 ⃗ =

𝑘 𝑎 𝑚 𝑎 + 𝑘 𝑐 ∗ 𝑚 𝑐 ∗ where 𝑚 𝑎 = (1 

> 𝑎

, 0,0) and 𝑚 𝑐 ∗ = (0, 1 

> 𝑏

, 1

> 𝑐

) . oote that since we perform a 

Fourier transform in 2D, there is an extra freedom in how we choose the out -of -plane 

component of the Brillouin zone (BZ) . In particular, one can choose 𝑚 𝑎 and 𝑚 𝑐 ∗ in such 

a way that the BZ lies in the plane of the surface, without changing the corres ponding SGF. 

The SGF exhibit poles near the Fermi level at 𝑘 ⃗ close to the time -reversal invariant 

momenta (TRIM) 2, indicating the appearance of the TSS. These appear in pairs, related 

by time -reversal symmetry, and their dispersion close to the TRIM poi nts are well described 

in terms of a massless Dirac Hamiltonian. For more details on the low -energy theory of the 

TSS, see the supplementary information from Ref. 5. The Zeeman field breaks time -

reversal symmetry and therefore couples the two surface state s. This coupling introduces 

a mass term in the Dirac Hamiltonian significantly decreasing the density of states at the 

Fermi Level. Since the TSS have weight mainly on the tellurium sites, this effect should be 

much stronger on the LDOS probing the telluri um atoms. Supplementary r eferences: 

1. Theuss, F. et al. Single -component superconductivity in UTe 2 at ambient pressure. Nat. 

Phys. 20 , 1124 (2024). 

2. Christiansen, H., Geier, M., Andersen, B. M. & Kreisel, A. oodal superconducting gap 

structure and topological surface states of UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 112 , 054510 (2025). 

3. T. Berlijn, private communication. 

4. López Sancho, M. P., López Sancho, J. M. & Rubio, J. Highly convergent schemes for 

the calculation of bulk and surface Green functions, J. Phys. F: Met . Phys. 15 , 851 

(1985 ).

5. Christiansen, H., Andersen, B. M., Hirschfeld, P. J. & Kreisel, A. Quasiparticle 

interference of spin -triplet superconductors: Application to UTe 2. Phys. Rev. Lett. 135 ,

216001 (2025) 

6. Jiao, L. et al. Chiral superconductivity in heav y-fermion metal UTe 2. Nature 579 ,

523 (2020). 

7. Gu, Q. et al. Detection of a pair density wave state in UTe 2. Nature 618 , 921 (2023). 

8. Wu, Z. et al. Enhanced triplet superconductivity in next -generation ultraclean UTe 2.

Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 121 , e2403067121 (2024). Supplementary Figure 1 | Cleave plane assignment and site -dependent 

superconducting gap distribution in UTe 2. a , b, Schematic crystal structure of UTe 2,

with the (01 -1) and (011) cleavage planes indicated by grey shading, respectively . Each U 

(black ) atom is coordinated by two inequivalent Te sites, labeled Te1 ( red ) and Te2 ( pink ).

c, Atomically resolved topographic image of UTe 2 showing both Te1 and Te2 chains ( V =

50 mV, I = 100 pA). Based on the crystallographic structu re, Te1 atoms lie slightly above 

Te2 atoms in the cleavage plane. If the brighter chains are attributed to Te1, this suggests 

a (01 -1) cleavage. The topmost atomic model of the (0 1-1) surface is overlaid . Scale bar, 

1nm. d, Same as c, but assuming the brig ht chains arise from Te2 atoms. Based on 

calculations showing that the density of states at the Fermi level is dominated by Te 2p 

orbitals 1, the brighter chains are attributed to Te2, suggesting a (011) cleavage. The 

topmost atomic structure of the (011) s urface is overlaid. Scale bar, 1nm. e, Side and top 

view s of (0 -11) plane. Atoms highlighted with green circles indicate the topmost layer 

shown in c. f, Same as Fig.1b, c, showing the height profile and d I/d V line cut along dashed 

line in Fig. 1a. g, Side and top view s of (011) plane. Atoms highlighted with green circles 

indicate the topmost layer shown in d. Comparing e-g, either Te1 or Te2 chains could 

correspond to the observed topographic peaks, so we label the atoms on the bright chains 

as Te sites, which exhibit shallow gaps. Regardless of whether the cleavage plane is (01 -

1) or (011), the valleys in the topography align with the positions between U atoms. These 

are therefore labeled as U sites, which exhi bit deeper gaps. Supplementary Figure 2 | Comparison of the superconducting gaps in UTe 2 crystals 

grown by molten salt flux (MSF) and chemical vapor transport (CVT) . The 

superconducting gap measured on the MSF -grown sample ( Tc = 2.1 K) in this work (blue 

line, same as Fig. 1e) exhibits a slightly deeper gap compared with previous studies on 

CVT -grown samples 6,7 (Tc = 1.6 K , orange and red lines ), with all measurements performed 

at 300 mK . Considering the enhanced Tc and the much smaller residual resistivity ratio of 

the MSF -grown crystals 8, the large residual density of states observed within the gap is 

more likely to originate from the intrinsic electronic structure of UTe 2 rather than crystalline 

disorder. Suppl ementary Figure 3 | Real -space identification of Te, b -Te, and U sites in dI/d V

maps under magnetic field s along the a-axis. a. Topographic image of the area where 

the dI/dV map was acquired. A 32 × 32 grid is overlaid, with a d I/dV spectrum measured at 

each grid point ( V = 10 mV, I = 100 pA). Scale bar, 1 nm. b-g, Topographies acquired 

simultaneously with each dI/d V map under the indicated magnetic fields. Te sites (red 

triangles) and U sites (navy squares) are identified via two -dimensional peak and valley 

detection, respectively. b -Te sites (yellow circles) are defined as the valleys located 

between adjacent Te sit es along the a-axis (V = 1 mV, I = 100 pA). Supplementary Figure 4 | Field -induced gap deepening in sample#2 with different 

tips under magnetic field s along the a-axis . a-d, dI/d V spectra acquired on various Te 

site s using tip #1 under the indicated magnetic field. The superconducting gap deepens 

with increasing field, and recovers to zero -field gap when the field is ramped back down (V

= 1 mV, I = 300 pA) . e, dI/dV spectra acquired on Te site with tip #2 under the indicated 

magnetic fields. Similar field -induced gap deepening is observed (V = 1 mV, I = 300 pA) .Supplementary Figure 5 | Gap depth map s under magnetic field s along the a-axis. a -

f, Gap depth maps extracted from dI/dV maps under the indicated magnetic f ields. As the 

field increases, the gap depth at Te sites progressively increases, and above 0.5 T, the gap 

depth becomes nearly uniform across all sites. Scale bar, 1 nm. Supplementary Figure 6 | Zero -bias d I/d V maps acquired under magnetic fields 

along the c*-axis . a. Zero -bias dI/d V map acquired over the dashed -box region in Fig. 4a 

under zero field. The DOS at the Fermi level is uniformly modulated by the Te chains 

(V=1 mV, I=100 pA). b, c, Same as a, but acquired under 0.8 T applied along the c* and -

c* directions , respectively. In-plane vortices appear in the orange dashed boxes, exhibiting 

enhanced DOS under the indicated magnetic fields (V=1 mV, I=100 pA) .Supplementary Figure 7| Real -space id entification of Te sites in selected dI/d V map 

regions under magnetic field s along the c*-axis . a, Same as Fig. 4b. b, Topographies 

acquired simultaneously with the zero -field d I/d V map and extracted from the region 

indicated by the dashed box es in a. c, Same as Fig. 4c. d, Same as b, but with 0.8T field 

applied along the c* direction and extract from the regions indicated by the dashed box es 

in c. e, Same as Fig. 4d. f, Same as b, but with 0.8T field applied along -c* direction and 

extract from the regions indicated by the dashed box es in e. Te sites (red triangles) in b, d

and f are identified via two -dimensional peak detection. Supplementary Figure 8 | Out -of -plane vortex on the UTe 2 surface under magnetic 

field along the b* -axis. a, Topography of the vortex region (V = 40 mV, I =20 pA) . Scale 

bar, 5 nm. b, Corresponding d I/dV map acquired at 0 mV under a 0.8 T magnetic field 

applied along the b*-axis. An asymmetric vortex appears and is pinned by nearby defects 

(V = 1 mV, I =100 pA) . Scale bar, 5 nm. c, dI/dV line cut measured along the dashed line 

in a under zero field (V = 1 mV, I =100 pA) . d, dI/d V line cut measured along the dashed 

line in b, which corresponds to the real -space dashed line shown in a, under a 0.8 T 

magnetic field applied along the b* axis (V = 1 mV, I =100 pA) . A zero -energy vortex bound 

state appears in the center. e, Averaged spectra of Te sites extracted from the d I/d V

linecuts corresponding to the regions marked by dashed boxes in c and d under the 

indicated fields. The gap deepens on the right side of the vortex under field, remains largely 

unchanged on the left, and a sharp zero -energy peak emerges at the vortex core. Supplementary Figure 9 | Zeeman effect on the topological surface states of UTe 2 in 

the B3u triplet phase. a-c, Spectral functions of Te and U in the B3u triplet phase with the 

indicated Zeeman energy. The topological surface states dominated by Te are gradually 

gapped out by the Zeeman effect. d-f, Integrated DOS versus energy corresponding to a-

c. As Zeeman energy increases, the Te -derived sub -gap DOS associated with the 

topolo gical surface states becomes suppressed.