Title: Topological flat bands emerging at the inversion of stacking order in rhombohedral graphite

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.01115v1

Published Time: Tue, 05 May 2026 00:15:09 GMT

Number of Pages: 6

Markdown Content:
# Topological flat bands emerging at the inversion of stacking order in rhombohedral graphite 

Ruben Weht, 1, 2, 3 Armando A. Aligia, 4 and Manuel Núñez-Regueiro 5

> 1

Departamento Física de la Materia Condensada, Gerencia de Investigación y Aplicaciones, Comisión Nacional de Energía Atómica (CNEA), Avda General Paz y Constituyentes, 1650 San Martín, Argentina 

> 2

Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos Aires, Argentina 

> 3

Instituto Sabato, Universidad Nacional de San Martín - CNEA, 1650 San Martín, Argentina 

> 4

Instituto de Nanociencia y Nanotecnología, CNEA-CONICET, GAIDI, Centro Atómico Bariloche and Instituto Balseiro, 8400 Bariloche, Argentina 

> 5

Univ. Grenoble Alpes, CNRS, Grenoble INP, Institut Néel, 38000 Grenoble, France 

(Dated: May 5, 2026) Motivated by the indications of high-Tc superconductivity in natural graphite enriched in the rhombohedral phase, we study the band structure of several stacking configurations that combine two of the three graphite structures as well as modifications of the rhombohedral sequence (from ABCABC... to CBACBA...), using first-principles calculations. We focus in particular on the pos-sible emergence of flat bands near the Fermi level. When the two different rhombohedral orderings are combined, flat bands of topological origin emerge at the interface between the two domains, near the K and K′ points of the Brillouin zone. Mapping a simple tight-binding model of a rhom-bohedral slab along the direction perpendicular to the graphene layers onto a Su–Schrieffer–Heeger chain provides a transparent understanding of the underlying physics. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

For more than two decades, there have been recurring claims of ferromagnetism and superconductivity above room temperature in various forms of graphite, includ-ing highly oriented pyrolytic graphite and natural single crystals with Bernal (ABAB…) and rhombohedral (AB-CABC…) stackings [1–3]. While the origin of supercon-ductivity in these compounds remains unclear, it has often been attributed to granular superconductivity at graphite interfaces [4]. In particular, it has recently been shown that by using a magnetic field sorting method in suspensions of graphite grains, it is possible to concentrate the amount of superconducting particles, achieving percola-tion to zero resistance in electrical resistance measure-ments above room temperature. Transmission electron microscope studies of the superconducting grains with 

Tc ∼ 650 K reveal a stripe-like contrast, suggesting a stacking of ordered two-dimensional domains with thick-ness of a few nanometers [5]. In contrast, magnetic sep-arations performed on rhombohedral‑rich graphite yield powders that, according to X‑ray diffraction and Raman characterization, exhibit a large increase (up to about 40% of the volume) in the rhombohedral phase [6] and a 

Tc ∼ 370 K. Superconductivity has already been observed in twisted bilayer graphene [7] and in rhombohedral few-layer graphene slabs [8, 9], although the reported tran-sition temperatures Tc are quite small, of the order of a few Kelvin. An electron–phonon mechanism has been proposed for both systems [10, 11]. In each case, the pres-ence of flat bands appears to be the key ingredient for superconductivity. Moreover, the nontrivial topology of flat bands can enable relatively large values of Tc, scaling with the effective attractive interaction rather than ex-hibiting the exponential dependence characteristic of the conventional Bardeen–Cooper–Schrieffer framework [12– 14]. Using tight-binding formulations, it became clear that surface superconductivity develops at the surfaces of a slab of rhombohedral graphite, and that Tc increases with the number of graphene layers [15–17]. The local-ized surface states near the K and K ′ points of the two-dimensional (kx, k y ) Fermi surface and its topology can be explained by mapping the model in the third ( z) direc-tion to a Su–Schrieffer–Heeger (SSH) chain [18]. The ge-ometrical properties of several arrangements of graphene layers have also been studied [17, 19, 20]. On the basis of these works, one may speculate that, in ordinary graphite, certain ordered stackings combining rhombohedral and possibly other domains (for example, through a twist at the interface) could give rise to flat bands similar to those associated with the surface states of finite rhombohedral slabs. We have investigated the electronic structure of various graphite stacking config-urations using first-principles density functional theory (DFT) [21, 22]. Similar studies have recently been per-formed using simplified tight-binding models [23]. How-ever, a change between the two possible rhombohedral stackings (ABC… and CBA…) has not yet been addressed. Analyzing the results using the effective SSH model, we conclude that this case is the only one in which robust topological flat bands, similar to those of the surface of rhombohedral slabs are present. The paper is organized as follows. In Sec. II, we de-scribe the methodology used for the first-principles and tight-binding calculations. The results are presented in Sec. III. Section IV provides a summary and discussion. 

> arXiv:2605.01115v1 [cond-mat.mes-hall] 1 May 2026

2 

> II. METHODS OF CALCULATION

Throughout our work, we used the VASP code [24– 26] to calculate energy bands, charges, density of states, etc., for graphite with various stacking configurations. It is one of the most widely used Density Functional The-ory (DFT) programs. It uses pseudopotentials to rep-resent the interaction between electrons and ions, ex-pressing both the wave functions and the potential as a combination of plane waves. The calculations were performed using the PBE exchange–correlation func-tional [27], with van der Waals interactions treated using the Tkatchenko–Scheffler scheme [28]. Importantly, we took very fine meshes in reciprocal space to integrate charges and accurately determine the Fermi level. Us-ing this approach, we obtained interlayer separations in good agreement with the expected values for different graphene stackings: 3.35 for AB (Bernal) graphite, 3.25 for the ABC (rhombohedral) structure, and 3.53 for AA stacking. The larger separation in the latter case is at-tributed to an enhanced repulsive interaction between carbon atoms aligned along the z direction. To interpret some of our results, we employ a sim-ple tight-binding model with nearest-neighbor intralayer hopping t (in the xy plane) and interlayer hopping tz

between atoms aligned along the perpendicular ( z) di-rection in adjacent layers. Upon Fourier transforming in the xy plane, one obtains an effective model in terms of the states αi(k) and βi(k), corresponding to the two inequivalent sites of layer i with two-dimensional wave vector k. 

> III. RESULTS

To illustrate the kind of flat bands that we are look-ing for, we represent in Fig. 1 the resulting bands for a slab with nine layers of graphene in a rhombohedral ar-         

> FIG. 1. Band structure along the M−K−Γlines in the re-ciprocal space for an isolated slab of 9 layers of graphene with the rhombohedral structure. We plot only an small region of the Brillouin zone around K, units are 1/.On the right we include a diagram of the first Brillouin zone, highlighting the special points.

rangement (ABC-ABC-ABC). As we can see, there are two flat bands at the Fermi level around the K point, in agreement with previous reports. They correspond to states localized at both surfaces, with a small hybridiza-tion between them [15–17]. The result at the K and K′ can be readily understood from the tight-binding model. The states αi(k) and βi(k)

do not hybridize at these high-symmetry points. Along the perpendicular direction, the interlayer hopping tz ∼

0.4 eV hybridizes only the βi(K) states of layer i with the αi+1 (K) states of next one. For a slab of N lay-ers, the states α1(K) and βN (K) are decoupled, yielding two states at the Fermi level (zero energy). The remain-ing states arise from N − 1 independent 2 × 2 matrices of eigenvalues ±tz . These states are clearly seen in the figure. As it is evident from Fig. 1, the states with energies 

±tz split out of the K and K′ points. However, if the deviation of the wave vector k from one of these points is small, and if N is large, the zero-energy states persist due to the topology of the effective SSH model along the 

z direction [18] (see Supplemental Material [29]). Do similar flat bands exist for a change in stacking in graphite layers? We have found that there are no such flat bands at the interface between AA ordering and either Bernal or rhombohedral ordering.       

> FIG. 2. Band structure along the M−K−Γlines and charge densities for energy levels around the Fermi level a compound of alternating six layers of Bernal type and six layers of rhom-bohedral type

In Fig. 2 we display the band structure for a stacking consisting of six layers of both rhombohedral and Bernal structures, and the charge distribution at low energies. Two flat bands similar to those of Fig. 1 are clearly visible near the Fermi level, in addition to additional structure. Integrating the charge density in a small energy win-dow of total width 0.1 meV around the Fermi level, we find that the states of the flat bands are spatially con-fined in the Bernal region. Flat bands in this system have also been obtained using tight-binding calculations in previous studies; however, those studies suggest charge localization at the interface between the two phases [23], which differs from our observations. This discrepancy 3could possibly arise from a change in the effective poten-tial across the interface, an effect that may not be fully captured within the tight-binding framework. The re-sulting charge distribution is expected from the mapping of a finite rhombohedral slab onto the SSH model [18, 29]. When the slab’s edge states hybridize with Bernal states near the K point (where the latter can be described as a tight-binding chain with uniform hopping tz ) the rhom-bohedral edge states broaden in energy and become em-bedded within the Bernal structure.         

> FIG. 3. Band structure along the M−K−Γlines and charge densities at the Kpoint, for a compound of alternating nine layers of rhombohedral type ABC... and nine layers with the alternative stacking BAC.

Finally, we consider the central result of this work in which slabs with opposite rhombohedral stackings are joined. The corresponding band structure is shown in Fig. 3, where four flat bands near the Fermi level are clearly visible around the K point. In contrast to the previous case, the charge density of the bands nearest to the Fermi level (four in our case) is now concentrated at the layer (denoted N ) where the rhombohedral stack-ing reverses, as well as in the two adjacent layers. Away from the K point, the charge density associated with the four states near the Fermi level becomes more delocalized within the sample, and for |k −K| ∼ 0.05 it is distributed across all layers. As in the case of a rhombohedral slab, these results can be understood using a simple tight-binding model with nearest-neighbor in-plane hopping t and interlayer hop-ping tz between atoms aligned in adjacent layers. Assume that at a layer i = N , corresponding to C, the rhombo-hedral ordering of the chains is inverted, so that near 

i = N the ordering of the graphene sheets is ... ABCBA ... The effective model for the system in the z direction takes the form of two SSH chains, one for i ≤ N − 1 and another for i ≥ N + 1 hybridized with the states αN (k)

and βN (k) as represented in Fig. 4. Note that for an in-finite system, there is a mirror symmetry M around the layer C. In other words, the system is invariant under the substitution i ↔ 2N − i.We discuss first the physics at the K point for which the hopping between αi(k) and βi(k), denoted by tk, van- 

> FIG. 4. Schematic illustration of the atomic structure of rhombohedral graphite near the change of stacking and the effective hoppings between Bloch states.

ishes, and the only relevant hopping is tz . In this case, 

βN −1(K) hybridizes only with αN (K), and as expected by the symmetry M , βN +1 (K) also hybridizes only with 

αN (K). The antisymmetric contribution βN −1(K) −

βN +1 (K) does not hybridize with any state and remains at zero energy. In addition, the state βN (K) does not hybridize and gives a second state at zero energy. Natu-rally, the same happens at the K′ point. For small q = k − K, one has to linear order in q [29] 

tk = (3 ta/ 2)( −qx + iq y ). (1) The phase can be absorbed by a gauge transformation. One knows that the SSH chain is topological as long as 

|tk| < t , or using Eq. (1) 

|qa | <

√23 | tz

t |. (2) Therefore, as long as Eq. (2) is satisfied, topologi-cal zero-energy edge states localized near βN −1(K) and 

βN +1 (K) exist. An analytic expression for these states is given in Section III of Ref. [30]. The antisymmetric combination of these states remains unaffected by hy-bridization with αN (K).In addition, the state βN (k) hybridizes only in the plane and with state αN (k). Including the state (even under M ) βe = ( βN −1(k) + βN +1 (k)) /√2, the Hamilto-nian matrix in the sector even under M for k → K takes the form 

H =



0 −tk 0

−¯tk 0 √2tz

0 √2tz 0

 . (3) For k̸ = K, the state βe should be replaced by the corresponding symmetric combination of the SSH end states (as long as Eq. (2) is satisfied) and the magnitude 4-0.1 K 0.1         

> -0.1 0.0 0.1
> Energy (eV)
> FIG. 5. Zoom of the band structures along the M−K−Γlines around the Fermi level for nABC-nBAC slabs with n= 3
> (solid lines, empty circles) and n= 5 (dashed lines, filled circles).

of the matrix elements is reduced, but the form of the matrix is retained. There is an eigenstate of zero energy proportional to √2tz βN (k) + tkβe.The above discussion assumes a single defect in an oth-erwise very large system. If multiple boundaries or stack-ing changes are present, the corresponding SSH chains become finite, and the end states hybridize (see, e.g., Sec. III of Ref. [30]). As a result, the range of q values for which low-energy localized states exist is reduced. To illustrate this fact, we display in Fig. 5 how the low-energy bands change when the distance between consec-utive interfaces changes from 9 to 15 layers. In the latter case, the bands have a smaller splitting and deviate from a nearly flat behavior at larger values of |k − K|.In summary, near the K point, two states protected by topology, one even and the other odd under mirror sym-metry, are localized near zero energy and near the layer of the change of stacking. Since the unit cell contains two layers where the stacking changes, four low-energy bands are expected, in agreement with Fig. 3. In addi-tion, from the matrix Eq. (3) for k = K one obtains two eigenvalues at ±√2tz while most of the other eigen-values at this point lie at ±tz . This fact agree with the four split bands (two per interface) observed in Fig. 3 at 

k = K. The distribution of charges in the figure is also fully consistent with the above discussion.  

> IV. SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION

We have investigated several interfaces between differ-ent stackings of graphene layers as candidate structures in graphite. Previous studies of rhombohedral graphene slabs have shown the presence of topologically protected flat bands at their surfaces. In particular, for sufficiently strong effective electronic attraction, the superconduct-ing critical temperature Tc increases approximately lin-early with the slab thickness, up to about 20 layers [16]. Based on our results, we expect similar physics to arise at interfaces between the two possible rhombohe-dral stackings. Our first-principles calculations indeed reveal flat bands localized at such interfaces. Further-more, using a tight-binding model that captures the es-sential physics, we find that near the K and K′ points of the two-dimensional Brillouin zone these states can be understood in terms of the end states of an SSH model in its topological phase, exhibiting both similarities and differences with the surface states of rhombohedral slabs. As the distance between interfaces decreases, the states associated with different interfaces hybridize, leading to the opening of a small gap between the flat bands. This behavior can also be understood in terms of the SSH model for a finite chain [30]. The hybridization further increases as the two-dimensional wave vector k moves away from the K or K′ points. For sufficiently large de-viations [when Eq. (2) is no longer satisfied] the effective SSH model undergoes a transition to a topologically triv-ial phase, and the localized low-energy states disappear. In addition to the expected increase in Tc with the distance between interfaces, we we anticipate a strong dependence on pressure. Increasing pressure reduces the interlayer distance d between adjacent layers, and the magnitude of the hopping tz between 2pz orbitals is ex-pected to increase as 1/d 3 [31]. In the strong-coupling limit, Tc is proportional to the area of the region of the flat band [16], which according to Eq. (2), scales as t2 

> z

.Therefore, one expects Tc ∼ 1/d 6.We also obtain flat bands for the interface between Bernal and rhombohedral stackings. However, the low-energy states are not localized at the interface according to our results. Concerning experiments, artificially fabricated stack-ings of twisted or rhombohedral graphene layers have so far exhibited superconductivity only at low temper-atures. Although these measurements have been repro-duced by several groups, the success rate remains low, as the samples are difficult to fabricate due to factors such as structural disorder (e.g., buckling or irregular stack-ing), large interlayer separations, and impurities. In ad-dition, superconductivity is highly sensitive to the level of doping. In contrast, such defective superconducting struc-tures may occur naturally and randomly in graphite [1– 3]. When the appropriate stacking order and doping are present, they can be selectively concentrated using magnetic-field-based separation techniques that exploit their large diamagnetism [5]. These selected regions ex-hibit ordered stackings, at least in samples with the high-est reported Tc values. The presence of topological flat bands at interfaces be-tween the two rhombohedral orderings is expected to pro-mote superconductivity, as in the case of the surfaces of rhombohedral slabs, and possibly with higher Tc. Outer surfaces are often highly irregular, with Bernal or even AA-type defects that induce scattering between differ-ent wave vectors k, thereby disrupting the flat bands. In contrast, interfaces are typically sharp and well defined. Such an interface can be engineered by cutting a rhom-bohedral graphite stack of approximately ∼ 20 layers or more and placing one half on top of the other after a 180° rotation. There are three possible ways of cutting the 5stack, depending on whether the terminating layer is of type A, B, or C, and three corresponding ways of rejoin-ing the two pieces, depending on their relative displace-ment. Disregarding the higher-energy AA, BB, and CC contacts, the resulting interface configuration is equiva-lent to the one studied here, up to a cyclic permutation of the ABC stacking sequence. 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

R.W. sincerely thanks Joaquín Torres and Bruno Bruzzo for their computational assistance, as well as the partial support of SICyT and the management team for supercomputing time on Clementina XXI (grant No PAD-148-2025). 

[1] Y. Kopelevich, P. Esquinazi, J. H. S. Torres, and S. Moehlecke, Ferromagnetic- and superconducting-like behavior of graphite, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 119 , 691 (2000). [2] T. Scheike, W. Böhlmann, P. Esquinazi, J. Barzola-Quiquia, A. Ballestar, and A. Setzer, Can doping graphite trigger room temperature superconductivity? evidence for granular high-temperature superconductiv-ity in water-treated graphite powder, Advanced Materi-als 24 , 5826 (2012). [3] R. Ariskina, M. Stiller, C. E. Precker, W. Böhlmann, and P. D. Esquinazi, On the localization of persistent currents due to trapped magnetic flux at the stacking faults of graphite at room temperature, Materials 15 ,10.3390/ma15103422 (2022). [4] P. Esquinazi, T. T. Heikkilä, Y. V. Lysogorskiy, D. A. Tayurskii, and G. E. Volovik, On the superconductivity of graphite interfaces, JETP Letters 100 , 336 (2014). [5] M. Núñez-Regueiro, T. Devillers, E. Beaugnon, A. de Marles, T. Crozes, S. Pairis, C. Swale, H. Klein, O. Leynaud, A. Hadj-Azzem, F. Gay, and D. Dufeu, Magnetic field sorting of superconducting graphite par-ticles with Tc>400K (2024), arXiv:2410.18020 [cond-mat.supr-con]. [6] A. Champi, M. Núñez-Regueiro, H. Cercellier, T. Dev-illers, K. Barbosa, F. Sanchez, L. Roux-Balouzet, T.-M. Nguyen, T. Crozes, E. Beaugnon, F. Gay, and D. Dufeu, Characterization of superconducting grains with T c ∼350K sorted by magnetic field separation: X-Rays diffraction, Raman and magnetic field effect., to be published (2026). [7] Y. Cao, V. Fatemi, S. Fang, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, E. Kaxiras, and P. Jarillo-Herrero, Unconventional su-perconductivity in magic-angle graphene superlattices, Nature 556 , 43 (2018). [8] H. Zhou, T. Xie, T. Taniguchi, K. Watanabe, and A. F. Young, Superconductivity in rhombohedral trilayer graphene, Nature 598 , 434 (2021). [9] R. Zhang, B. A. Foutty, O. Sheekey, T. Arp, S. Xu, T. Xie, Y. Guo, H. Stoyanov, S. Gu, A. Keough, E. Re-dekop, C. Zhang, T. Taniguchi, K. Watanabe, M. E. Hu-ber, C. Jin, E. Berg, and A. F. Young, Imaging the Meiss-ner effect and local superfluid stiffness in a graphene su-perconductor (2026), arXiv:2603.25807 [cond-mat.supr-con]. [10] F. Wu, E. Hwang, and S. Das Sarma, Phonon-induced gi-ant linear-in-T resistivity in magic angle twisted bilayer graphene: Ordinary strangeness and exotic superconduc-tivity, Phys. Rev. B 99 , 165112 (2019). [11] Y.-Z. Chou, F. Wu, J. D. Sau, and S. Das Sarma, Acoustic-phonon-mediated superconductivity in rhombo-hedral trilayer graphene, Phys. Rev. Lett. 127 , 187001 (2021). [12] S. Peotta and P. Törmä, Superfluidity in topologically nontrivial flat bands, Nature Communications 6, 8944 (2015). [13] P. Törmä, S. Peotta, and B. A. Bernevig, Superconduc-tivity, superfluidity and quantum geometry in twisted multilayer systems, Nature Reviews Physics 4, 528 (2022). [14] H. Tian, X. Gao, Y. Zhang, S. Che, T. Xu, P. Che-ung, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, M. Randeria, F. Zhang, C. N. Lau, and M. W. Bockrath, Evidence for Dirac flat band superconductivity enabled by quantum geometry, Nature 614 , 440 (2023). [15] N. B. Kopnin, Surface superconductivity in multilay-ered rhombohedral graphene: Supercurrent, JETP Let-ters 94 , 81 (2011). [16] N. B. Kopnin, T. T. Heikkilä, and G. E. Volovik, High-temperature surface superconductivity in topologi-cal flat-band systems, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 220503 (2011). [17] G. Jiang, T. T. Heikkilä, and P. Törmä, Ideal quantum geometry of the surface states of rhombohedral graphite and its effects on the surface superconductivity, Phys. Rev. B 113 , L041111 (2026). [18] H. Zhang, Q. Li, M. G. Scheer, R. Wang, C. Tuo, N. Zou, W. Chen, J. Li, X. Cai, C. Bao, M.-R. Li, K. Deng, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, M. Ye, P. Tang, Y. Xu, P. Yu, J. Avila, P. Dudin, J. D. Denlinger, H. Yao, B. Lian, W. Duan, and S. Zhou, Correlated topological flat bands in rhombohedral graphite, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 121 , e2410714121 (2024), https://www.pnas.org/doi/pdf/10.1073/pnas.2410714121. [19] X. Liu, Y. Guan, and O. V. Yazyev, Electronic states at twist stacking faults in rhombohedral graphite (2025), arXiv:2512.20493 [cond-mat.mes-hall]. [20] K. Lv, Q. Cheng, Y.-C. Zhuang, C.-Y. Hao, X.-Y. Wang, Y.-X. Zhao, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, Y.-N. Ren, Q.-F. Sun, and L. He, Electrical Switching of the Berry Phase in Bernal Bilayer Graphene Quantum Dots, Phys. 6

Rev. Lett. 136 , 116201 (2026). [21] P. Hohenberg and W. Kohn, Inhomogeneous electron gas, Phys. Rev. 136 , B864 (1964). [22] W. Kohn and L. J. Sham, Self-consistent equations in-cluding exchange and correlation effects, Phys. Rev. 140 ,A1133 (1965). [23] F. Sun and J.-A. Yan, Electronic structure of multilayer graphene with arbitrary stackings, APS Open Sci. 1,000009 (2026). [24] G. Kresse and J. Furthmuller, Efficiency of ab-initio total energy calculations for metals and semiconductors using a plane-wave basis set, Comput. Mat. Sci. 6, 15 (1996). [25] G. Kresse and J. Furthmüller, Efficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy calculations using a plane-wave basis set, Phys. Rev. B 54 , 11169 (1996). [26] G. Kresse and D. Joubert, From ultrasoft pseudopoten-tials to the projector augmented-wave method, Phys. Rev. B 59 , 1758 (1999). [27] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Generalized Gradient Approximation Made Simple, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

77 , 3865 (1996). [28] A. Tkatchenko and M. Scheffler, Accurate Molecular Van Der Waals Interactions from Ground-State Electron Den-sity and Free-Atom Reference Data, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

102 , 073005 (2009). [29] (2026), see Supplemental Material for the mapping of the tight-binding model for a rhombohedral slab to an effective SSH chain. [30] A. A. Aligia, A. M. Lobos, L. Peralta Gavensky, and C. J. Gazza, Probing boundary spins in the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger-Hubbard model, Phys. Rev. B 112 , 235156 (2025). [31] W. Harrison, Electronic Structure and the Properties of Solids: The Physics of the Chemical Bond , Dover Books on Physics (Dover Publications, 2012).