Title: Local supersolid in moiré modulated Bose-Hubbard model using density-matrix renormalization group method

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.10238v1

Published Time: Tue, 12 May 2026 02:25:53 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# Local supersolid in moir´ e modulated Bose-Hubbard model using density-matrix renormalization group method 

Siyu Xie, 1 Qiang Xu, 1 Qianqian Shi, 2, ∗ and Wanzhou Zhang 1, †

> 1

College of Physics, Taiyuan University of Technology, Shanxi 030024, China 

> 2

Centre for Modern Physics, Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, The People’s Republic of China 

(Dated: May 12, 2026) The search and characterization of supersolid phases remain a central topic in condensed mat-ter physics. Inspired by the experimental discovery of local superfluid and insulating phases in two-dimensional moir´ e optical lattices [Meng et al., Nature 615, 231 (2023)], we systematically ex-plore the emergence of a local supersolid (lSS) phase in a one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model subjected to a moir´ e potential, using the density-matrix renormalization group method. We impose a maximum site occupation nmax = 2 to realize the soft-core boson constraint. In the absence of nearest-neighbor repulsion, we identify the conventional superfluid, local superfluid, Mott insulator, and moir´ e-induced insulator phases. When the nearest-neighbor repulsion is turned on, the lSS phase emerges in the strong-moir´ e regime. This phase is uniquely characterized by three key signa-tures: (i) coexisting local staggered density order and local off-diagonal coherence within isolated moir´ e supercells; (ii) exponentially decaying global off-diagonal correlations; and (iii) a vanishing global structure factor in the thermodynamic limit, while the local structure factor remains finite. These features clearly distinguish the lSS from the conventional global supersolid (SS) phase, which exhibits algebraic correlations and a finite global structure factor. Our results provide a complete mi-croscopic picture of local quantum phases in moir´ e lattices and offer clear experimental observables for detecting lSS states with ultracold atoms. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

The supersolid (SS) phase is a novel quantum phase where diagonal and off-diagonal long-range orders co-exist, and relevant research has been extensively con-ducted from both theoretical and experimental perspec-tives [ 1, 2] . The theoretical exploration of the SS phase has been carried out in multiple physical systems and lattice models, with the formation of the phase found to be highly dependent on lattice geometry, boson interac-tion characteristics and interaction range [ 3–6]. Theo-retically, one of the most common models for describing supersolids is the extended Bose-Hubbard (BH) model [7]. Specifically, the extended BH model is an exten-sion of the standard BH model, incorporating nearest-neighbor interactions. When dipolar excitons are em-ployed as the bosonic particles, this model has also been successfully proposed theoretically [ 8]. For hard-core bosons with nearest-neighbor interactions, early numer-ical simulations demonstrated that the SS phase cannot be realized in square [ 9–11 ], honeycomb [ 12 ], kagome [ 13 ], star [ 14 ], and Shastry-Sutherland lattices [ 15 ], due to the intrinsic instability of the SS phase [ 9, 11 ], which leads to phase separation into a solid phase and a superfluid phase for all interaction strengths. Nevertheless, this situation can be overcome by intro-ducing geometric frustration in triangular lattices, which stabilizes the SS phase [ 4–6]. Specifically, the triangu-lar lattice geometry inherently induces frustration in the   

> ∗shiqianqian@cqu.edu.cn
> †zhangwanzhou@tyut.edu.cn

nearest-neighbor repulsion—an effect that gives rise to a classical ground state with massive macroscopic degen-eracy. When quantum hopping is introduced, quantum fluctuations lift this degeneracy, driving the system to re-solve the classical frustration: it selects a state that min-imizes kinetic energy via particle delocalization (super-fluidity) while simultaneously preserving broken trans-lational symmetry (solid order). Moreover, in the soft BH model, doping bosons or introducing vacancies in bipartite lattices can also lead to the formation of the SS phase. Further theoretical studies have demonstrated that dipole-dipole interactions and other long-range in-teractions can also stabilize the SS phase [ 16 –26 ]. In contrast to the rich theoretical predictions, the ex-perimental realization and verification of the SS phase have experienced great challenges, and the research progress varies significantly across different systems. The realization of the SS phase in 4He [ 27 –29 ] systems has proven extremely difficult in experiments, and no stable SS phase has been successfully observed so far. Major experimental breakthroughs have been achieved in real-izing the supersolid (SS) phase using ultracold atomic systems in optical lattices [ 30 –34 ]. These include realiza-tions via cavity-mediated interactions, spin-orbit-coupled quantum gases, and long-range dipolar interactions, all providing direct evidence for supersolidity. In 2022, the extended Bose-Hubbard model was experimentally im-plemented using dipolar excitons [ 35 ]. More recently, the scope of supersolid research has been rapidly expanded to photonic-crystal polariton condensates [ 36 ] and two-dimensional dipolar quantum gases [ 37 ], further enriching the landscape of accessible quantum phases. While these platforms exhibit rich many-body phenomena, they do 

> arXiv:2605.10238v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 11 May 2026

2

not directly implement the extended BH model with ul-tracold atoms, which remains a key motivation for the present theoretical study. In addition to cold atom and exciton systems, the SS phase has also been identified in realistic spin materials, such as Na 2BaCo(PO 4)2 [38 ]and K 2Co(SeO 3)2 [39 ], expanding the experimental plat-form for SS phase research. Furthermore, in driven quan-tum gas systems, sound modes with characteristics anal-ogous to the SS phase have been observed [ 36 , 40 ], and these unique dynamic modes can be used as an impor-tant probe to characterize the dynamic and far-from-equilibrium quantum states related to the SS phase. With the development of research on the SS phase, a new platform would be of great value for understanding the characteristic features of the SS phase. In recent years, the realization of the moir´ e potential [ 41 ] adds some new degrees of freedom to the cold atom on the optical lattices, which has the potential to lead to new physics related to the SS phase. A moir´ e potential is formed by the superposition of two periodic potentials with different wavelengths. When the wavelength ratio of these two periodic potentials is an ir-rational number, they are incommensurate; in this case, the resulting moir´ e potential is a type of incommensurate potential and exhibits quasiperiodicity [ 42 ]. An example of a moir´ e potential is shown in Figs. 1 (a) and (b) for both two-dimensional and one-dimensional lattices. The non-uniform potential can result in insulating (I) and lo-cal superfluid (SFII) phase, which has also been observed in experiments [ 41 ] and simulations based on the Gross-Pitaevskii equation [ 43 , 44 ]. For example, in the non-uniform insulator, the number of particles at the bottom of the local potential wells is greater than that at barri-ers. In the SFII phase, the potential barrier regions are in the insulating phase (e.g., the empty phase), while the potential well regions are local superfluid regions. In fact, the spatial extent of local regions is not defined by a fixed number of lattice sites. The localization phenomenon is determined by the confinement of moir´ e potential wells and potential barriers. The width of these domains is not fixed, but depends on the chemical potential, the ampli-tude of the moir´ e potential, and the local spatial position within the system. Inspired by experimental observations of SFII and non-uniform insulator I phases under moir´ e potential, one may ask whether lSS phenomena can emerge when intro-ducing nearest-neighbor repulsive interactions? Under moir´ e potential modulation, the one dimenisional (1D) 

lSS phase is a coexistence of local solid and superfluid order: the latter is characterized by the nearest-neighbor tunneling expectation value 〈a† 

> i

ai+1 〉, while the former appears as a staggered particle number density distribu-tion (Fig. 1 (c)). Unlike the global SS phase, 1D lSS has a vanishing global structure factor (at peaks, thermo-dynamic limit) and exponentially decaying off-diagonal global correlations; the global SS, by contrast, has a non-zero structure factor and algebraically decaying off-diagonal correlations. 

(c) 

(b) (a)      

> Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the moir´ e potential in a bosonic lattice system. (a) Two-dimensional spatial distribu-tion of the moir´ e potential MR.(b) One-dimensional cross-section along ix, showing alternating potential wells and bar-riers. (c) One-dimensional staggered particle density 〈n〉. The local supersolid phase appears in yellow potential wells with non-integer filling, while green regions act as impenetrable barriers. It is characterized by coexisting staggered order, fi-nite compressibility, and local off-diagonal correlations.

In this manuscript, we study the BH model with moir´ e potential using the density-matrix renormalization group(DMRG) method [ 45 ]. We mainly focus on the 1D lattice with and without nearest-repulsion V , and we re-veal many local phases induced by large moir´ e potential. These interesting properties can be experimentally ob-served by the quantum gas microscope [ 46 , 47 ]. The outline of this paper is as follows. Sec. II presents the model Hamiltonian and numerical details of the DMRG method. Sec. III summarizes and reviews the key local quantum phases. Sec. IV shows the complete phase diagrams and detailed physical analysis. Finally, Sec. V provides the discussion and conclusions. In the Appendix, we present additional parameter calculations based on Bloch wave function analysis.   

> II. MODEL AND METHOD A. The extended BH model with moir´ e potential

The extended BH model can be written as [ 7, 48 –50 ], 

H0 = −t ∑

> 〈i,j 〉

(a† 

> i

aj + a† 

> j

ai) + U

2

∑

> i

ni (ni − 1) + V ∑

> 〈ij 〉

ninj − μ ∑

> i

ni, (1) 3

which contains four parameters: tunneling amplitude be-tween neighboring sites t, on-site many-body interaction energy U , nearest-neighbor repulsive interaction V , and chemical potential μ. In this model, ˆ a† and ˆ a are the cre-ation and annihilation operators, respectively. ˆ ni = ˆ a† 

> i

ˆai

is the number operator at site i. When V = 0, the equa-tion would be reduced to the standard BH model. When 

V 6 = 0, the phase diagram of this model H0 within the plane has been investigated in plane ( t/V , μ/t ). Following the experiments by Meng et. al. in Ref. [ 41 ], the hopping amplitude t is controlled by the depth of the optical lattice V0, which can be estimated as 

t = 4

√π ER

( V0

ER

)3/4

e−2√V0 /E R . (2) The local repulsion U depends on both the lattice depth and the s-wave scattering length as, and is given by [ 51 ]

U = g

∫

|w(x)|4 dx =

√ 8

π ka sER

( V0

ER

)3/4

, (3) where w(x) is the Wannier function, ER = ℏ2k2/(2 m) is the recoil energy and k = π/d is the lattice wave vector. Although the nearest-neighbor repulsion V is typically weak in conventional cold atomic systems as it originates from the weak overlap of Wannier functions on adjacent sites, it can be significant and widely tuned in dipolar systems [ 32 –34 ] or excitonic systems [ 35 ] as realized in recent experiments. Here we focus on the theoretical many-body physics driven by the various parameters. In Ref. [ 41 ], the extended BH model with moir´ e poten-tial can be written as 

H = H0 + ∑

> i

Mini, (4) where the site-dependent incommensurate chemical po-tential Mi can be written as 

Mi = MR

(sin 2(φi) + sin 2(φ⊥ 

> i

)) , (5) where φi = ixπ cos θ +iyπ sin θ, φ⊥ 

> i

= iyπ cos θ −ixπ sin θ,with i = ( ix, i y). The subindex ix and iy label the posi-tion of the i-th site in the two-dimensional space. With-out loss of generality, only the typical angle θ = 5 .21 ◦

is chosen [41 ], the theoretical derivations and impli-cations from other values of the angle in later sections are discussed in later section. The parameter MR repre-sents the moir´ e potential strength, which is related to the microwave Rabi frequency between the two spin states atoms, which act as the two synthetic layers. It can be independently and continuously tuned over a wide range (from 0 up to 1 ER) by adjusting the power of the mi-crowave field, without affecting the tunneling t or on-site interaction U .In this paper, we focus on the soft-core BH model, where the maximum occupation for each site is fixed to 

nmax = 2. Such a constraint can be realized via a three-body restriction mechanism [ 52 –55 ].  

> B. The numerical method (DMRG)

We solve Eq. 4 using the DMRG method [45 , 56 , 57 ], which can be easily implemented in the ITensor library [58 ]. This method is efficient in dealing with ground state and the phase diagram of the strongly correlated 1d quantum systems with very high precision [ 59 ]. The pe-riodic boundary condition is used to eliminate the finite-size effect. While the full lattice is treated with periodic boundary conditions, the local region is characterized on a truncated sub-region of the whole chain. Consequently, this local segment effectively exhibits open boundary be-havior. The details for the DMRG implementations are specified as follows. The number of sweeps ranges from 50 to 180, and a strict truncation error threshold is set to as low as 1 × 10 −20 . The bond dimension of matrix product states(MPS) varies from 50 to 500. Moreover, the advanced noise parameter is also added as 1 × 10 −5.The noise term [ 60 ] can improve the efficiency of the MPS method in the solid or insulator phases, where quantum fluctuations are absent, leading to reduced DMRG ef-ficiency. By introducing noise to perturb the density matrix, it enables the construction of a new MPS ba-sis that better captures correlations, which are missed in the unperturbed state. In our simulations, we adopt two schemes, with and without noise, to ensure the consis-tency and reliability of the results. Our partial data have also been compared with those obtained via the directed-loop stochastic series expansion quantum Monte Carlo method [ 61 ] and exact diagonalization method, and good consistency is achieved.  

> C. Measurable physical quantities

• Particle density and local superfluid order parame-ter : 〈ni〉 and 〈ai〉

• Compressibility κ:

κ = L (〈 n2〉 − 〈 n〉2) , (6) where L denotes the total number of lattice sites. The compressibility κ serves as a critical indicator to distinguish between compressible phases, such as SF, SFII, lSS and SS, where κ > 0 and incom-pressible phases, such as MI phase and the moir´ e-induced I phase where κ → 0. 

• Off-diagonal correlation function: 

C(r) = 〈a† 

> i

ai+r 〉. (7) In the superfluid (SF) or SS phase, the correlation decays algebraically, which means the system ex-hibits an off-diagonal quasi-long-range order. In contrast, in the density wave (DW) phases, the cor-relaiton tends to decay exponentially. 4

• The rescaled structure factor [ 2–6, 16 –26 ]: 

S(k)/L = 1

L2

> L

∑

> i,j =1

eik ·(ri−rj )〈ninj 〉, (8) where k is the wave vector, and ri, rj are the po-sitions of lattice sites i and j, respectively. The structure factor S(k) is scaled by L to define an order parameter that remains finite in the ther-modynamic limit for solid phases. For this solid phase with a lattice configuration such as 1010 · · · ,the structure factor exhibits a non-zero value at 

k = 2 π/ 2 = π. The factor 2 in the denominator represents the length of the translation-invariant vector for particle distribution. The structure fac-tor S(k) characterizes the diagonal long-range or-der of the system. A finite peak in S(k)/L (as 

L → ∞) indicates the spontaneous breaking of translational symmetry, which is the signal of solid and SS phases. 

• Local structure factor: 

Sc(k)/L c = 1

L2

> cLc

∑

> i,j =1

eik ·(ri −rj )〈ninj 〉, (9) where k is the wave vector, and ri, rj are the po-sitions of lattice sites i and j, respectively. The density-density correlation in the local structure factor Sc(k)/L is confined only to the local region we select, such as the particle correlation 〈ninj 〉

between two dashed vertical lines, and the sub-script “c” is the abbreviation of “cut”. It allows us to detect the robust crystalline order that survives within local supercells (as seen in the lSS phase), even when the global structure factor vanishes. 

• Momentum distribution function: 

n(k) = 1

L

∑

> ij

eik ·(ri−rj ) 〈

a† 

> i

aj

〉

. (10) The momentum distribution function n(k) de-scribes the population of atoms at different momen-tum states, which directly reflects the coherence and correlation properties of the system. Sharp peaks in n(k) indicate long-range phase coherence, while a broad and flat distribution represents short-range or localized states. The sharpness of the mo-mentum distribution varies significantly in differ-ent phases and can be directly observed in experi-ments [ 62 –64 ]. 

• Visibility [ 65 ]: 

v = max( n(k)) − min( n(k)) 

max( n(k)) + min( n(k)) . (11) Visibility measures the interference pattern con-trast in the momentum distribution [ 65 ]. A high             

> BB
> A
> a(b)
> B
> A
> Figure 2. Real-space configurations of (a) superfluid or-der parameter 〈ai〉and (b) particle density 〈ni〉for the lo-cal superfluid (SFII) phase (DMRG calculations). Color bars quantify 〈ai〉(0–0.51) and 〈ni〉(0–1.0002). “A” (bright) and “B” (dark) regions denote moir´ e potential wells/barriers, re-spectively. Island-like 〈ai〉distribution confirms SFII phase: superfluid coherence is confined to wells and does not perco-late globally.

visibility means that there is a clear difference between the maximum and minimum values of the distribution, suggesting coherent behavior, and thus a superfluid order.   

> III. REVIEW OF THE PHASES A. The typical phases

In Ref. [ 41 ], the phase diagram comprises four distinct phases in moir´ e lattice systems. Benefiting from the rapid progress in twisted bilayer optical lattices, moir´ equasicrystals and periodically modulated trapping po-tentials, rich quantum phases of ultracold bosons have been widely explored in both theoretical [ 66 –68 ] and ex-perimental [ 69 ] studies in recent years. Below, we classify the ground-state phases and their characteristic features. (I) Uniform MI phase : The simplest phase, where the particle number per lattice site is an integer with no fluc-tuations, is indicated by 〈ai〉 = 0 and 〈ni〉 = integer (i = 1 , · · · , L ). This phase already exists in the standard BH model without moir´ e modulation or under very weak moir´ e potentials [ 7, 70 ]. (II) Non-uniform insulator phase : With larger MR,disk-shaped domains of density 2 emerge against a back-ground density of 1 [ 41 ]. A cross-section along any di-rection shows 〈ni〉 follows the pattern (111 2222 1111 22222. . . ), forming an alternating sequence of 1s and 2s. This phase was also be named as the I phase [ 41 ]. Simi-lar phase-separated insulating domains induced by moir´ epotential modulation have also been reported in twisted bilayer bosonic systems, where periodic insulating islands are surrounded by low-density backgrounds [ 66 ]. (III) Local SF phase (named SFII phase in Ref. [ 41 ]): In Fig. 2, we present typical real-space configurations of the order parameters obtained by DMRG with numer-ical values indicated by the corresponding colorbars. Fig-5                                                   

> Table I. Summary of order parameters and phase proper-ties. “al.” and “ex.” denote algebraic and exponential de-cay of correlations C(r), respectively; while “int.”=integer, “uni.”=uniform, “non-uni.”=non-uniform. The lSS phase is characterized by a local nonzero structure factor S(k) within isolated regions, rather than a global one.
> Phase 〈ni〉C(r)S(kmax )/L κNature
> SF non-uni. al. 06= 0 global MI uni. int. ex. 0= 0 insulator SS staggered non-int. al. 6= 0 6= 0 global SFII non-uni. ex. 06= 0 local SF Inon-uni. int. ex. 0= 0 incompressible
> lSS staggered ex. local: 6= 0 6= 0 local

ure 2(a) displays the spatial distribution of the local su-perfluid order parameter 〈ai〉. The yellow regions in this panel exhibit high coherence with 〈ai〉 ≈ 0.3 ∼ 0.5, cor-responding to potential wells. In contrast, the black re-gions show negligible coherence with 〈ai〉 ≈ 0, which cor-respond to potential barriers and the intermediate region between barriers and wells. Such spatially fragmented su-perfluidity is a typical property of moir´ e and quasicrystal lattices, where repulsive interactions and quasiperiodic modulation jointly confine superfluid coherence into iso-lated domains [ 67 , 71 ] As characterized via percolation in Refs. [ 67 , 72 ], 〈ai〉 is mapped to a site percolation con-figuration. Figure 2(b) shows the spatial distribution of particle density 〈ni〉.Both 〈ai〉 and 〈ni〉 exhibit island-like spatial distribu-tions, with particle coherence confined within the length of moir´ e superlattice unit cells. As characterized via per-colation in Refs. [ 67 , 72 ], 〈ai〉 is mapped to a site per-colation configuration using a threshold ǫ ≈ 10 −2: sites with 〈ai〉 > ǫ (yellow area, labeled as “A”) are occu-pied, while others (black area, labeled as “B”) are not. Since yellow regions do not span the entire lattice, this phase is termed the local SF phase. The density dis-tribution shown in panel (b) further clarifies the spatial variation of 〈ai〉: black regions with 〈ai〉 ≈ 0 in panel (a) correspond to integer-filling domains ( 〈ni〉 = 0 or 1), which are governed by the non-uniform term −(μ−Mi)ni.Similar isolated superfluid islands embedded in insulating backgrounds have been uncovered in interaction-induced moir´ e lattices and twisted bilayer optical lattices [ 66 , 68 ]. (IV) Global SF phase : With stronger quantum fluc-tuations, sites with 〈ai〉 6 = 0 connect and span the en-tire lattice. Despite non-uniform spatial distributions of physical quantities (due to moir´ e potential modulation), this phase is still referred to as the SF phase for simplic-ity.  

> B. Identification of the phases

Table I summarizes the key order parameters and phys-ical properties of various quantum phases, including the local particle density 〈ni〉, correlation function C(r), re-duced structure factor S(k)/L , and the corresponding phase nature. With small morie potential, the global SF phase is characterized by a non-uniform density, algebraic decay of the correlation function, no peaks in the struc-ture factor, and represents a globally coherent superfluid state. In contrast, the local SFII phase exhibits a non-uniform density and exponential decay of correlations, with no visible peaks in the structure factor. The MI phase shows an integer filling density, exponential cor-relation decay, and a zero structure factor, behaving as a typical insulator. The incompressible I phase is iden-tified by a non-uniform integer density and exponential correlation decay. The SS phase features a non-uniform density, algebraic correlation decay, and finite structure factor peaks, hosting the coexistence of superfluid and solid orders. Finally, the local lSS phase possesses a stag-gered density distribution, exponential correlation decay, zero global but nonzero local structure factor peaks, and corresponds to the coexistence of local superfluidity and solidity. The difference between the SFII phase and the SS phase can be directly observed from their configurations. From the perspective of particle number density, the par-ticle number density of the SFII phase exhibits no stag-gering, whereas the SS phase shows a staggered particle number density. Regarding the decay behavior of the off-diagnoal correlation function C(r): the former decays exponentially, while the latter decays algebraically. In                   

> Figure 3. A schematic phase diagram of the extended BH model in a one-dimensional moir´ e potential, computed at fixed parameters U= 1, μ= 0 .6, and V= 0. The horizon-tal axis represents depth of the potential well V0, while the vertical axis corresponds to the moir´ e modulation ratio MR,ranging from 0 to 0 .9. At small V0, the system is in the SF phase. As V0increases, the system directly transitions to the MI phase in the low-MRregime. In the high-MRregime, by contrast, the system first enters the SFII phase before even-tually reaching the insulating I phase at large V0.

6

terms of the structure factor, the SFII phase exhibits no peak near k = π, while the other phase shows a clear peak. The easiest way to identify the presence of a lSS phase is to inspect its particle density profile. If iso-lated density islands emerge in the particle number density distribution, and these islands exhibit density staggering with non-integer staggered occupation such 0 0 0 .15 0 .85 0 .15 0 .85 · · · 0 0, the system corresponds to a lSS phase. The staggered density inside the islands in-dicates that the system possesses local solid order. These two fundamental orders can be separately quantified us-ing dedicated physical probes: local solid order is cap-tured by the local structure factor Sc(k)/L c, while local superfluid order is characterized by the off-diagonal cor-relation C(1). In fact, it has been confirmed that the global structure factor S(k)/L vanishes in the thermody-namic limit and global correlations decay exponentially, which rules out the existence of a globally ordered super-solid.  

> IV. RESULTS

The reasons for exploring atoms in 1D lattices with a moir´ e potential are as follows. For numerical methods such as the DMRG method, results for 1D systems are more accurate, converge more quickly, and require less computational cost. Experimentally, the physics of the 1D morie lattice has been realized [ 41 , 73 ]. 1D moir´ e po-tential V (x) is obtained by fixing the 2D potential V (x, y )at y = y0 without loss of generality. As shown in Fig. 2,we select the line y0 = 14.   

> A. Local superfluid and non-uniform insulator in a non-interacting system ( V= 0 )

Figure 3 presents a schematic phase diagram that in-cludes four phases: SF, SFII, MI, and I. The range of phases is represented by line segments in different colors. If MR = 0, the system undergoes the SF-MI transitions at V0 = 3. The density of the system is uniform in the SF phase. When the moir´ e potential MR is small but no-zero, i.e. MR = 0 .2 the system still exhibits a SF-MI phase, but at V0 = 2. As MR increases, such as 

MR = 0 .7, the SF evolves into an SFII phase at deeper potentials ( V0 = 4) and is further transformed into an I phase at deeper potentials ( V0 = 9). The method for distinguishing the SFII and I phases is defined as follows. An indicator is the particle number density 〈n〉, as shown in Fig. 4 (b). When the depth of the well increases, if the potential well V0 is deep enough, the density forms a plateau. At this point, the tunneling term in the system can be neglected, and the system is in the classical limit, where quantum fluctuations are completely absent. Furthermore, the expectation value 

〈ni〉 can be calculated exactly using the onsite minimum energy criterion. Meanwhile, 〈ni〉 for each site is not the same, that is, the system enters phase I. To further distinguish and identify the SFII phase from the I phase, compressibility κ serves as another critical criterion. As illustrated in Fig. 4(c), the compressibility 

κ/L satisfies κ/L > 0 in the SFII phase, while κ = 0 in the I phase. A minor inconvenience is that the compress-ibility does not abruptly switch from nonzero to zero, but gradually transitions, making it difficult to deter-mine the phase transition point. Therefore, we also use a threshold here to distinguish between zero- and nonzero values. The I phase is identified when two conditions are satisfied: compressibility falls below 5% of its maximum at V0 = 0, and the average particle number density 〈n〉

forms on a non-integer plateau.                            

> Figure 4. Phase characteristics of 1D lattices with U= 1,
> μ= 0 .6, and V= 0. (a) 〈n〉vs V0(fixed MR= 0 .7); (b) κ/L
> vs V0for L= 12 /24 /36. (c) Algebraic decay of SF-phase cor-relations ( C(r)≈0.8r−0.604 ); (d) exponential decay of SFII-phase correlations ( C(r)≈0.22 exp( −0.6r)). (e,f) Real-space average density 〈ni〉for SFII and I phases (arrows mark pa-rameters). Physically, V0tunes phase transitions: increasing
> V0drives SF →SFII →I phase, with correlation decay switch-ing from algebraic (SF) to exponential (SFII and I).

7

The transition between the SF and SFII phases is uniquely characterized by the off-diagonal correlation function C(r) = 〈a† 

> i

ai+r 〉, which serves as the key order parameter for this phase transition. The detailed cor-relation characteristics of distinct phases at MR = 0 .7can be illustrated via C(r). In the global SF phase, the off-diagonal correlation exhibits algebraic decay, a well-established signature of long-range superfluid coherence [53 , 74 , 75 ]: 

C(r) = 〈a† 

> i

ai+r 〉. (12) In contrast, the local SFII phase is distinguished by expo-nential decay of C(r), indicating suppressed long-range coherence. As shown in Fig. 4, panel (d) presents log( C)versus log( r), which displays nearly linear behavior for the SF phase, confirming a power-law decay C ≈ C0r−η ,with η denoting the decay exponent. Panel (e) plots log( C) against r, showing approximately linear trends for the SFII phase, which demonstrates exponential de-cay C ≈ C0e−ar . The corresponding parameter positions of these two regimes are marked by red and blue arrows in Fig. 4 (a). In many cases, visual inspection alone is insufficient to unambiguously distinguish algebraic and exponential decay. To eliminate subjective judgment, we further adopt the goodness of fit as a quantitative crite-rion. The fitting quality is evaluated based on regression residuals, i.e., the deviation between numerical data and theoretical decay functions. A smaller residual value in-dicates a better fitting result, which provides an objec-tive and reliable criterion to differentiate the SF and SFII phases. In terms of the property of the density distribution 

〈ni〉, due to the influence of the moir´ e potential, 〈ni〉 is nonuniform in the SF, SFII and I phases. For exam-ple, in Fig. 4 (f), in the SFII phase for the 1D system, the non-uniform density distribution is shown. In the re-gions marked in yellow, the density exhibits non-integer values, whereas in the green-marked regions, the density shows integer values. In Fig. 4 (g), the density of the number of particles 〈ni〉 for phase I exhibits a pattern of (000 1111 0000 11111 · · · ), forming an integer string composed of alternating 0s and 1s. Due to the inho-mogeneous moir´ e potential, the length of each string of 0s or 1s is not necessarily the same. This configuration mirrors the two-dimensional case, where disk-shaped do-mains with a density of 2 emerge against a background density of 1 [ 41 ]. As shown in Fig. 4 (e) and Fig. 4 (f) , the number of lattice sites occupied by local domains varies across differ-ent spatial positions. In the SFII phase, integer-density and non-integer-density regions are highlighted in yellow and green, respectively. The widths of the three yellow localized domains are not identical, containing 7, 5, and 5 lattice sites respectively. In the I phase, by contrast, sharp step-like boundaries emerge between occupied and empty regions. Meanwhile, the width of each localized domain is also inhomogeneous, with sizes corresponding to 5, 4, and 3 lattice sites in sequence. In conclusion, the emergence of the SFII phase and the non-uniform insulator I phase is attributed to the rela-tively large height difference ( MR) between the potential barriers and potential wells. There are no particles at the potential barriers, while particles exist at the potential wells and exhibit a local superfluid or insulating phase. The potential barriers prevent these local phases from connecting to form a global phase.    

> B. Supersolid and local supersolid in an interacting system ( V6= 0 )

Figure 5 (a) presents the phase diagram of the one-dimensional system at large MR/V values, where the lSS phase emerges as the dominant phase in the yellow re-gion. The phase boundaries are denoted by red circles with error bars and and the solid line is a guide to the eye. For MR/V > 2.8, the system is characterized by high potential barriers and numerous localized regions, giving rise to rich local quantum phases. At small chem-ical potential μ/t (e.g., μ/t < 15), the particle density in local regions is low, and the repulsive interaction V

(fixed at V = 1 in this phase diagram) plays a weak role; accordingly, the system remains in the SFII phase (blue region). As μ/t exceeds the approximate threshold of 15, more particles fill the local domains, enhancing the repul-

(b) (a)       

> 0.9 0.0
> DW DW(0,2) SS lSS DW(0,1,2)
> 10 20 25 15
> 10 10
> 11.5 13 14 18.5

MR/V MR/V MR/V                     

> Figure 5. Phase diagram of the one-dimensional system; the parameters used are t/V = 0 .125, U/V = 1 .25, and V= 1. (a) Under strong moir´ e potential, the two-dimensional phase diagram shows the lSS phase (yellow region). As μ/t exceeds the approximate threshold of 15, enhanced repulsive interac-tions induce staggered local density order, driving a phase transition from SFII to lSS. The SFII-lSS boundary (red cir-cles) rises with increasing MR/V , demonstrating that larger modulation requires higher chemical potential to stabilize the
> lSS phase. (b) In the weak moir´ e potential 0 ≤MR/V ≤1, one-dimensional cuts at MR/V = 0 ,0.2,0.9 reveal SS, DW, DW(0,1,2), and DW(0,2) phases.

8

sive interaction V (with V = 1) to become the dominant interaction. This strong repulsion induces a staggered particle density arrangement in the local regions, driving the system to undergo a phase transition from the SFII phase to the lSS phase. Notably, the phase boundary be-tween SFII and lSS (red circle markers) shows a clear up-ward trend with increasing MR/V , indicating that higher potential modulation MR/V requires a larger chemical potential to stabilize the lSS phase. For comparison, the lower panel, i.e., Fig. 5(b), illus-trates the phase evolution at small MR/V (0 ≤ MR/V ≤

1), where the system exhibits conventional phases in-cluding SS, DW, DW(0,1,2), and DW(0,2) instead of local phases—further highlighting that the lSS phase is a unique feature of strong moir´ e potential modulation (large MR/V ). Even though the primary focus of this work is the lSS state induced by strong moir´ e potentials, the exploration of the SF, SFII, MI, and I phases is indispensable, since the lSS emerges from these phases and inherits key phys-ical properties from them. As illustrated in the phase diagram of Fig. 5, the lSS phase can be accessed directly from the SFII phase by increasing the particle number (chemical potential μ) at fixed interaction strength V .Meanwhile, as shown in Fig. 4, the SFII phase itself emerges from two distinct routes: it can be reached from the SF phase by increasing the moir´ e potential strength 

MR, or from the insulating I phase by increasing the hopping amplitude t (decreasing V0). These pathways as shown in Fig. 6 clearly demonstrate that the lSS phase is deeply connected to its neighboring SF, SFII, and insu-lating phases, making a comprehensive understanding of these parent phases essential for characterizing the for-mation and stability of the lSS state. While these phases have been mentioned in previous experimental work [ 41 ], a systematic and high-precision numerical investigation using methods such as DMRG is still lacking. This moti-vates the present study to explore the full phase diagram, including the SF, SFII, and insulating phases, to estab-lish a complete and consistent microscopic picture of the phase transitions leading to the lSS phase.     

> Figure 6. Schematic of the phase evolution pathways leading to the lSS phase. The diagram shows that the lSS phase can be accessed from the SF phase, the SFII phase, and insulating I phases via different control parameters.
> 1. The SS phase at small MR

In terms of parameter selection, to avoid blind param-eter searching, we build on the extended soft-core BH model in Ref. [ 76 ]. The phase diagram was shown in plane ( μ/t , t/V ) with the fixed parameters U = 10 t and 

V = 1. In the range 10 < μ/t < 12, the stable SS phase was found to exist. In this paper, we limit our discussion of the phase diagram to the region where μ/t > 10. As shown in Fig 5, when MR = 0, along the μ/t axis ranging from 10 to 12, the phase diagram has an SS phase indicated by the dark green line segment, consistent with the result from Ref. [ 76 ]. Furthermore, when μ/t > 12, a phase DW emerges with a pattern of 020202 · · · labeled as DW(0,2). The SS phase can be considered to be in-duced by hole excitations in the DW(0,2) phase. When 

MR = 0 .2, the SS phase still exists; however, the particle number density distribution 〈ni〉 already shows obvious modulation by the moir´ e potential. However, from the perspective of either the particle number distribution or the tunneling correlation 〈a† 

> i

ai+1 〉, the entire lattice does not yet appear to be divided into distinct region. For brevity, we still label it as SS. When MR = 0 .9, no SS phase is observed. This is because a large MR destroys the off-diagonal long-range order, and the system instead exhibits various density-wave phases. In some cases, the particle number density is non-integer—arising from the varying values of the lo-cal potential −(μ − Mi)ni—yet the expectation value of the particle number 〈ni〉 still follows an alternating ar-rangement; we refer to this state as a DW phase. If the effect of MR is negligible, the system can exhibit inte-ger density filling, DW(0,1,2) and DW(0,2) indicate that the particle numbers are distinct integers or close to in-tegers. Increasing MR to 2.8, lSS emerges. In the ther-modynamic limit, the global structure factor equals zero, while the local structure factor is non-zero. The careful analysis of the SS and DW(0,1,2) phases is shown in Fig. 7. In Fig. 7(a), with parameters MR = 0 .2and μ/t = 11, for the SS phase, the correlation function 

C(r) is plotted for the SF order in the SS phase. Due to the oscillations in the correlation function, we fit the local maxima and minima of the oscillations separately, and find C(r) obeys the way of algebraic decay, i.e., 

C(r) = −0.71 r−0.349 ,C(r) = −2.24 r−0.349 (13) which means that the system exhibits off-diagonal quasi-long-range order, an indicator of the SF order in the SS phase. The solid order of the SS phase can be observed from the staggered pattern in the distribution of the par-ticle number expectation value 〈ni〉. In Fig. 7(b), the spatial density distribution for the SS phase is illustrated, with data shown for a system size of L = 36. The particle number density displays non-uniform, non-integer, how-ever spatially oscillatory behavior means that it has prop-erties of solid. The structural factor S(k)/L in Fig. 7(c), 9

exhibit sharp peaks near k = ±π. As the system size increases, the values of these peaks remain present and stable, indicating that this solid order exists stably in the thermodynamic limit. In Fig. 7(d), for the SS phase, momentum distribution 

n(k) shows a sharp peak in at k = π and k = 0, with the corresponding visibility v labeled as 0.771. However, for the lSS phase, it is difficult to distinguish its key features using the global momentum distribution n(k). Since the 

lSS phase lacks global phase coherence (evidenced by the exponential decay of correlations, see Fig. 8(a)), the in-

> C(r)-    r-  
> L=
> L=
> L=

v

> C(r)-   r-  

exponentially algebraically DW(0,1,2) SS (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f)                                

> C(r) 0.6exp(-0.865 r)
> Figure 7. Detailed characterization of the SS and DW(0 ,1,2) phases in the one-dimensional lattice model. For the SS phase: (a) The correlation function C(r) exhibits algebraic decay,
> C(r) = r−ηwith η≈0.349, consistent with quasi-long-range order; (b) Spatial distribution of the particle number den-sity 〈ni〉, showing a slow modulation envelope induced by the moir´ e potential, with a local alternating pattern of occu-pied/empty sites characteristic of the underlying DW order; (c) Structure factor S(k)/L , with sharp peaks at wavevectors
> k=±π; (d) Momentum distribution n(k)/L for system sizes
> L= 12 ,24 ,36, showing a peaks at k= 0 and ±πwith visialbil-ity ν= 0 .771. For the DW(0 ,1,2) phase: (e) The correlation function C(r) decays exponentially, C(r) = exp( −ar ) with correlation length a≈0.865, indicating short-range order; (f) Spatial distribution of the particle density 〈ni〉, showing a pe-riodic density-modulated pattern characteristic of the density wave phase.

terference peaks in n(k) are significantly broadened or fully suppressed, in contrast to the sharp peaks observed in the global SS and global SF phases. This broaden-ing makes it difficult to unambiguously characterize the coherent nature of the lSS phase using n(k). If we in-stead define a local momentum distribution nc(k) (in analogy with the local structure factor), i.e., the Fourier transform of the in-island correlation function, it simi-larly shows no sharp peaks in momentum space. This is because the global correlation function decays expo-nentially, which we have explicitly verified in our calcu-lations. Another interesting phase is the emerged DW(0,1,2) phase due to the non-uniform moir´ e potential. With pa-rameters MR = 0 .9 and μ/t = 15, the correlation func-tion C(r) exhibits exponential decay as shown in Fig. 7(e) for this DW phase. The density profile in Fig. 7(f) rep-resents the configuration. It is formed by inserting ze-ros into the density pattern of the non-uniform insula-tor reported in Ref. [ 41 ]. Specifically, in the absence of the nearest neighborhood interaction V , the particle ar-rangement follows the sequence 222221111222 · · · . When a finite V is introduced into the Hamiltonian, the config-uration evolves into 2020201010 · · · to minimize the total energy.    

> 2. The lSS phase at larger MR

To distinguish the lSS phase from the normal SS phase, two indicators can be used. In the lSS phase, the long-range off-diagonal correlation function decays exponen-tially [see Fig. 8 (a)], and the local expectation values 

C(1) = 〈aiai+1 〉 are nonzero [see Fig. 8 (b)] in the local regimes. The lattice sites between the two blue dashed lines are chosen as the boundaries of different local re-gions. In the local potential well region 8 ≤ i ≤ 15, the off-diagonal correlation 〈a† 

> i

ai+1 〉 is nonzero. In the local potential barrier regions 5 ≤ i ≤ 7 and 16 ≤ i ≤ 19, the off-diagonal correlation 〈a† 

> i

ai+1 〉 vanishes. Furthermore, in the lSS phase, the global structure fac-tor exhibits a peak near k = π that scales to zero in the thermodynamic limit [see Fig. 8 (c)]. Due to the par-ticularity and inhomogeneity of the moir´ e potential, we observe that the structure factor does not decrease mono-tonically with the inverse of size 1 /L . This is mainly due to the effect of the incommensurate moir´ e potential. In some potential wells, sublattice sites with even coordi-nates are occupied (with a particle number of 1), while those with odd coordinates are unoccupied (with a par-ticle number of 0). In other potential wells of the lattice, however, the occupancy is swapped. These inconsisten-cies lead to the vanishing of the structure factor of the entire lattice in the thermodynamic limit. This is quite different from a homogeneous system. If we focus on the density or correlation within just one potential well (e.g., the region bounded by the two dashed lines in Fig. 8 (e)), the local structure factor remains non-10  

> 0.6 C(r)0        0   r)

(b) (c) (d) 

Figure 8. Local SS phase details: (a) Global off-diagonal correlation function C(r), showing exponential decay C(r) ≈

0.26 exp( −1.04 r), indicating the absence of global phase co-herence. (b) Local correlation 〈a† 

> i

ai+1 〉 within the region 8 ≤ i ≤ 16, showing non-zero values that demonstrate lo-cal superfluid coherence. (c) Finite-size scaling of the global structure factor S(kmax )/L , which tends to zero in the ther-modynamic limit ( L → ∞ ), confirming the absence of long-range superfluid order. (d) Finite-size scaling of the local structure factor Sc(kmax )/L , which remains non-zero in the thermodynamic limit, indicating persistent local superfluid correlations. Here L ranges from 4 to 144 in (c) and (d) are included in the scaling analysis. (e) Spatial distribution of particle density 〈ni〉, exhibiting a staggered local density pat-tern within the moir´ e unit cells (highlighted by dashed lines), consistent with the coexistence of local superfluidity and den-sity wave order. 

zero [see Fig. 8 (d)]. kmax in the label S(kmax ) indicates that the positions of the peaks lie around k = π rather than exactly at k = π.

C. The decay exponents as a function of model parameters such as μ or V0(t) or V

In Fig. 9, we systematically analyze the decay behav-ior of the off-diagonal correlation function C(r) under varying parameters. The corresponding decay exponents for all panels are summarized in Table II . Overall, the correlation decay slows down with increasing μ, while the decay becomes faster with larger V or larger V0 (i.e., smaller tunneling t). Figure 9(a) presents C(r) on a semi-logarithmic scale for V = 0, V0 = 6, and μ = 0 .4 to 0 .8. The linear profiles 

Table II. Fitted slopes (scaling exponents) of correlation func-tion decay under different parameters with fixed MR = 0 .7

Subplot Fixed parameter Variable parameter Fitted slope (a) V = 0 , V 0 = 6 μ = 0 .4 −1.15(2) 

μ = 0 .5 −1.01(3) exponential decay μ = 0 .6 −0.92(3) 

μ = 0 .7 −0.87(3) 

μ = 0 .8 −0.87(3) (b) μ = 0 .6, V 0 = 1 V = 0 .00 −0.47(2) 

V = 0 .50 −1.00(3) algebraic decay V = 1 .00 −1.08(3) 

V = 1 .50 −1.25(3) 

V = 2 .00 −1.31(3) (c) μ = 0 .6, V = 1 V0 = 3 −1.23(4) 

V0 = 4 −0.63(1) exponential decay V0 = 5 −0.72(3) 

V0 = 6 −0.54(2) 

V0 = 7 −0.36(2) (d) μ = 0 .6, V = 1 V0 = 0 −0.20(3) 

V0 = 1 −0.09(3) algebraic decay V0 = 2 −0.07(2) 

confirm exponential decay C ≈ C0e−ar , with the decay exponent a decreasing from −1.15(2) to −0.87(3) as μ

increases. As μ increases, the particle density rises ac-cordingly, leading to a slower correlation decay, which is physically reasonable. At the initial value of μ, the local barrier region is nearly empty, similar to the particle con-figuration in Fig. 4 (e). The local barrier region is nearly   

> (a) (b)
> (c) aa
> (d)

Figure 9. Parameter dependence of off-diagonal correlation 

C(r) decay (exponents in Table II ). (a) Semi-log plot of C(r)(V = 0, V0 = 6, μ = 0 .4–0 .8): exponential decay C(r) ≈

C0e−ar , a from −1.15(2) to −0.87(3) (slower decay with larger 

μ). (b) Double-log plot of C(r) ( μ = 0 .6, V0 = 1, V = 0–2 .0): faster exponential decay with a from −0.47(2) to −1.31(3) (SF →SS phase). (c) Semi-log plot of C(r) ( μ = 0 .6, V =1, V0 = 3 .0–7 .0): faster exponential decay with larger V0

(smaller t). (d) Double-log plot of C(r) ( μ = 0 .6, V = 1, 

V0 = 0–2 .0): algebraic decay, accelerating with larger V0.11 

empty with very low particle density. As μ increases, the particle density in the barrier region gradually in-creases, and eventually evolves into a obvious local su-perfluid state. Consequently, the off-diagonal correlation decays much more slowly. Figure 9(b) shows C(r) for fixed μ = 0 .6, V0 = 1, and V = 0 to 2 .0 on a double-logarithmic scale. The exponential decay accelerates with increasing V , with a

varying from −0.47(2) to −1.31(3), indicating weakened off-diagonal order under stronger modulation. At the same time, the system evolves from the SF phase into the SS phase. Figure 9(c) displays C(r) for fixed μ = 0 .6, 

V = 1, and V0 = 3 .0 to 7 .0. The correlation exhibits ex-ponential decay and becomes faster as V0 (i.e., tunneling 

t) increases. Figure 9(d) shows C(r) for fixed μ = 0 .6, 

V = 1, and V0 = 0 to 2 .0. In contrast to other panels, 

C(r) shows algebraic decay, and the decay accelerates with increasing V0 (decreasing t).  

> D. Local phases under the moir´ e potential at larger system sizes

In previous results, for example Fig. 8 (e), we restrict the lattice size to L = 96, and it is unclear how the states of our system would evolve for larger system sizes. There-fore, we plot the moir´ e potential profile for L = 500 in Fig. 10 (a) and observe an interesting phenomenon. Be-sides the short-period oscillations inside the moir´ e po-tential, a much longer-period oscillation is also present. This is related to the expression of the moir´ e potential given in Sec. II A :

Mi = MR

[sin 2(φi) + sin 2(φ⊥ 

> i

)] , (14) 

φi = ixπ cos θ + iyπ sin θ, (15) 

φ⊥ 

> i

= iy π cos θ − ixπ sin θ, (16) where the first term exhibits slow oscillations of sin 2(φi), and the second term exhibits fast oscillations of sin 2(φ⊥ 

> i

), as shown in Figs. 10 (b) and (c). This arises because at 

θ = 5 .21 ◦, the coefficient of ix (i.e., cos θ) in the first term is much larger than that in the second term (i.e., sin θ). The first term corresponds to long-wavelength os-cillations, while the second term corresponds to short-wavelength oscillations. To verify whether the I, SF, and lSS phases identified in our previous sections are stable at larger system sizes, we also calculate the particle number density distributions of the three phases (SF, I, and lSS) for L = 200. For reproducibility, the corresponding parameters are pro-vided: the SF phase is obtained with V0 = 1, μ = 0 .6, 

U = 1, and MR = 0 .7; the I phase is obtained with 

V0 = 15, μ = 0 .6, U = 1, and MR = 0 .9; and the lSS phase is obtained with t = 0 .125, μ = 2 .625, U = 1 .25, and MR = 2 .8. In Figs. 10 (d), (e) and (f), it can be seen from the results that the particle number at each lattice site de-creases significantly for ix > 100, which is caused by the         

> 050 100 150 200 250 3 3  400 450 500 00.5 11.5
> Mi

(a) (b) (c) 

(d) (e) (f)                    

> II I III
> Figure 10. Spatial structure of the moir´ e potential and parti-cle density in large-scale systems. (a) The moir´ e potential pro-file Miover a lattice of length L= 500, showing periodic alter-nation between high-potential “Region I” and low-potential “Region II”, with red dashed lines marking the boundaries of individual moir´ e supercells. (b) The slow-modulation compo-nent sin 2(φi) of the moir´ e potential, which drives the large-scale envelope oscillation. (c) The fast-oscillating component sin 2(φ⊥
> i) of the moir´ e potential, responsible for the short-wavelength fluctuations within each supercell. (d)-(f) Par-ticle number density distributions 〈ni〉for L= 200 in three phases: (d) SF phase, (e) I phase, and (f) lSS phase. The SF and I phases show non-local and fully localized density patterns, respectively, while the lSS phase exhibits coexist-ing local density modulations and decaying correlations. All three phases remain stable in the region ix<100, consistent with previous results at L= 96.

higher moir´ e potential in region II. For ix < 100, the particle number at each position of the L = 200 system remains consistent with that of the L = 96 system, which does not affect our previous phase diagram and conclu-sions. 12   

> E. The role of angle θ

In this section, we study the role of the angle. First, we present the angular derivation formula to demon-strate the theoretical origin of θ = 5 .21 ◦. Second, we plot the corresponding moir´ e potential for smaller and larger commensurate angles θ. In brief, the fixed an-gle θ = 5 .21 ◦ is a typical commensurate twist angle de-rived from Pythagorean triples, which guarantees a well-defined periodic moir´ e superlattice. Changing the angle significantly modifies the moir´ e supercell size: too small angles lead to extremely large supercells (numerically in-tractable), while too large angles yield overly small su-percells (unable to host localized phases). For incommen-surate angles, the periodic moir´ e pattern is destroyed, re-sulting in a disordered potential. All details, derivations, and demonstrations can be found as follows. Consider an unrotated, perfect square lattice as the bottom layer with basis vectors a1 = (1 , 0) and a2 =(0 , 1) as shown in Fig. 11 . Any lattice point in this layer can be represented by integer coordinates: 

R1 = x1a1 + y1a2 = ( x1, y 1), (17) where x1, y 1 ∈ Z. When the top layer is rotated counter-clockwise by an angle θ, its new basis vectors become 

b1 = (cos θ, sin θ) and b2 = ( − sin θ, cos θ). Any lattice point in the rotated top layer, expressed in the original coordinate system, is given by: 

R2 = x2b1+y2b2 = ( x2 cos θ−y2 sin θ, x 2 sin θ+y2 cos θ),

(18) where x2, y 2 ∈ Z.

b2 (   θ,    θ) a! (0,1) a1 (1,0) b1 " #$ %  θ&% ' )  θ)       

> Figure 11. Definition of lattice basis vectors for the bottom (unrotated) and rotated top layers, showing the basis vectors
> a1,a2of the original square lattice and b1,b2of the layer rotated counterclockwise by an angle θ. This geometric con-struction underpins the derivation of the moir´ e superlattice commensurability condition.

The formation of a periodic moir´ e superlattice requires the existence of coincident points in space, such that 

R1 = R2. Expanding this into components yields: 

x1 = x2 cos θ − y2 sin θ, (19) 

y1 = x2 sin θ + y2 cos θ, (20) Since the coefficients x1, y 1, x 2, y 2 must all be integers, it follows that the matrix elements of the rotation ma-trix, cos θ and sin θ, must be rational numbers. Given that cos θ and sin θ are rational, they can be expressed as irreducible fractions: cos θ = A

C , sin θ = B

C , (21) where A, B, C are positive integers. Substituting these into the fundamental trigonometric identity cos 2 θ +sin 2 θ = 1 leads to: 

A2 + B2 = C2. (22) This indicates that the commensurability condition for a square lattice is mathematically equivalent to finding a set of Pythagorean triples—three positive integers that satisfy the sides of a right triangle. All primitive Pythagorean triples ( A, B, C ) can be gen-erated by two coprime integers m and n (where m > n > 

0) using the following general solution: 

A = m2 − n2, (23) 

B = 2 mn, (24) 

C = m2 + n2. (25) By substituting Eq. ( 23 ) and ( 25 ) back into the definition of cos θ, we rigorously derive the general formula for the commensurate angles of a square lattice: cos θ = m2 − n2

m2 + n2 . (26) It is worth noting that substituting Eq. (24 ) into the definition of sin θ yields sin θ = 2mn 

m2 + n2 . (27) Within the framework of direct derivation from the co-ordinate transformation matrix, the choice of m2−n2  

> m2+n2

as the analytical solution for the diagonal element cos θ is more direct and rigorous. Furthermore, due to the high 

C4 rotational symmetry of the square lattice, a rotation by a complementary angle 90 ◦ − θ yields a physically equivalent moir´ e pattern, where cos(90 ◦ − θ) = sin θ = 2mn 

m2 + n2 . (28) This geometric equivalence perfectly explains why the latter formula often appears in the literature. To intuitively demonstrate the impact of angle varia-tion, we also present the moir´ e superlattice potentials for two alternative twist angles: two extremely small angles 

θ ≈ 0.76 ◦ (m = 150 , n = 1), θ ≈ 1.15 ◦ corresponding to 

m = 100 , n = 1, and a larger angle θ ≈ 9.53 ◦ correspond-ing to m = 12 , n = 1. The lattice diagrams, both with dimensions of 100 × 100, are shown in Fig. 12 . As illus-trated, when the twist angle is too small ( θ ≈ 1.15 ◦), the 13 

> 0.76°
> 20 40 60 80 100

(a) 

> 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 11.2
> 1.15°
> 20 40 60 80 100

(b)   

> 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 11.2
> 9.53°
> 20 60 100
> 20 40 60 80 100

(c)   

> 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 11.2
> 30°
> 20 60 100
> 20 40 60 80 100

(d)                               

> 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 11.2
> Figure 12. Spatial distributions of square moir´ e superlattices. (a,b) Extremely small commensurate twist angles of θ≈0.76 ◦
> (m= 150 , n = 1) and θ≈1.15 ◦(m= 100 , n = 1) yield excep-tionally large supercell periods. (c) A larger commensurate angle of θ≈9.53 ◦(m= 12 , n = 1) results in much smaller and denser supercells. The patterns in (a)-(c) explicitly verify the strict geometric relation cos θ= ( m2−n2)/(m2+n2), demon-strating that the twist angle inversely dictates the moir´ e su-percell size. (d) At an incommensurate angle of θ= 30 ◦
> (where cos θ=√3/2 is irrational), the commensurate condi-tion has no integer solutions. Consequently, the spatial peri-odicity is completely destroyed, reducing the effective poten-tial to a quasi-random disordered landscape.

supercell spacing becomes excessively large (approaching 50 lattice sites), making it computationally prohibitive to simulate and observe the behavior across multiple su-percells. Conversely, when the twist angle is too large (θ ≈ 9.53 ◦), the supercells become too small, hinder-ing the observation of internal particle distribution differ-ences required for complex local phases. Whether novel local quantum phases emerge at these extreme angles is left for future exploration. Additionally, for incommensurate angles, the spatial periodicity is completely lost, and the effective potential reduces to a purely disordered landscape, as shown in Fig. 12 (c).  

> V. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS

Twisted bilayer systems have become a frontier for ex-ploring emergent quantum phases, with theoretical work revealing that the twist angle can stabilize unique cor-related states absent in single-layer or untwisted lat-tices [ 66 –68 ] . Recent experiments by Ketterle’s group have realized a highly controllable bilayer system of ul-tracold atoms. While this realization employs untwisted layers, the experimental architecture is fully compatible with introducing an additional inhomogeneous potential to emulate moir´ e superlattice physics [ 69 ]. In this work, we do not simulate a bilayer system directly, but study a single-layer atomic system under an effective moir´ e po-tential, whose physics can be observed in each layer of realistic bilayer cold-atom setups [ 69 ]. In total, we numerically investigate the one-dimensional extended BH model with a moir´ e poten-tial using the DMRG method, focusing on the micro-scopic characterization and identification criteria of the 

lSS phase. We show that the lSS phase emerges un-der strong moir´ e modulation and intermediate nearest-neighbor repulsion, and can be accessed from the SF, SFII, and I phases via tuning system parameters. The neighboring phases are essential to defining the formation pathways and stability of the lSS state. A key result is the establishment of clear and experi-mentally observable signatures for the lSS phase. In con-trast to a global supersolid, the lSS phase exhibits expo-nentially decaying global off-diagonal correlations and a vanishing global structure factor in the thermodynamic limit, while maintaining local superfluid coherence and local staggered density order within moir´ e supercells. These features unambiguously distinguish the lSS from the SFII phase and other conventional phases. Although motivated by two-dimensional moir´ e experi-ments, our one-dimensional model enables high-precision numerical verification that is currently challenging in higher dimensions [ 41 , 77 ]. In addition, all phase dia-grams reported in this work are obtained at zero tem-perature, and the corresponding finite-temperature phase diagram remains to be explored. Our results provide a consistent microscopic picture of local quantum phases in moir´ e lattices and offer direct observables for future experimental detection of the lSS phase. In conclusion, this work identifies the lSS as a well-defined quantum phase unique to strong moir´ e poten-tials, clarifies its characteristic fingerprints, and maps its evolution from neighboring phases. These findings deepen the understanding of correlated states in low-dimensional moir´ e systems and provide theoretical guid-ance for ultracold-atom experiments [ 41 , 69 ]. 

Acknowledgements: We would like to express our sin-cere gratitude to Professor Ming Gong and Professor Wei Han for many useful discussions. We also thank the two anonymous referees for many helpful suggestions. W. Z. was supported by the Hefei National Research Center for Physical Sciences at the Microscale (Grant No. KF2021002) and the Fundamental Research Pro-gram of Shanxi Province (Grant Nos. 202303021221029, 202203021211337). Q. X. is supported from the Funda-mental Research Program of Shanxi Province (Grant No. 20210302123152). Q.-Q. Shi is supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 12505003). 14 

(a) (b) 

Figure 13. (a) The hopping amplitude t/E R versus lattice depth V0/E R calculated by two methods: method 1 (red) is the approximate analytical expression 2, and method 2 (blue) is the exact numerical result from Bloch wave function calcu-lation. (b) On-site interaction strength U/E R versus V0/E R

for different interaction parameters a.

Appendix A: Relationship between t, U and V0 from Bloch wave function calculation 

Since the phase diagram in Ref. [ 41 ] uses V0 as the horizontal axis, while our calculations adopt the tunnel-ing amplitude t as a parameter, a conversion between V0

and t is required. The approximate dependence of t on 

V0, given by Eq. ( 2) (first introduced in Section II A ), is obtained by replacing the Wannier function with a Gaus-sian approximation [ 78 ]. As shown in Fig. 13 , labeled as “method 1”, this approximate relation does not decrease monotonically, which is inconsistent with the physical ex-pectation that deeper lattice potentials suppress tunnel-ing. Therefore, we use an alternative method [79 ] by Agdelma, as outlined below. For a particle confined in an optical lattice, where the Hamiltonian is given by 

H = p2

2m + V0 sin 2 kx, (A1) where k = π/a 0 with a0 the lattice spacing. According to Bloch’s theorem, the wave function should be Φ(0)  

> q

(x) = e iqx u(0)  

> q

(x) = e iqx ∑

> ℓ

C(0 ,q ) 

> ℓ

ei2kℓx , (A2) where q is the vector on the reciprocal lattice, C(0 ,q ) 

> ℓ

are the expansion coefficients for the lowest band. The coeffi-cients can be obtained by solving the eigenvalue equation as follows. 

∑

> ℓ′

Hℓ,ℓ ′ C(0 ,q ) 

> ℓ′

= E(n) 

> q

C(0 ,q ) 

> ℓ

, (A3) where H is a tri-diagonal matrix and its elements should be 

Hℓ,ℓ ′ =

{ [ 

ER

(2ℓ + q

> k

)2 + V0

> 2

]

δℓ,ℓ ′ if ℓ′ = ℓ, 

− V0 

> 4

(δℓ,ℓ ′+1 + δℓ,ℓ ′−1) if ℓ′ 6 = ℓ. (A4) Here, the recoil energy ER is defined by ER = ℏ2k2 

> 2m

. The Wannier function can be calculated directly by 

w (x − xj ) = 1

√N a 0

∑

> q

eiqx j Φ(0)  

> q

(x). (A5) Finally, the tunneling t is obtained by 

t = −

∫ L/ 2

> −L/ 2

dxw ∗(x)

(

− ℏ2

2md2

dx 2 + V0 sin 2 kx 

)

w (x − a0) ,

(A6) The code can be accessed at [ 79 ] by Agdelma, and the result is shown in Fig. 13 labeled as “method 2”. In the contact interaction limit, the on-site interaction reduces to 

U = g

∫

|w(x)|4 dx, (A7) which corresponds to the zero-range δ-function interac-tion between two atoms. The coupling strength is given by g = 4 

> aπ 2

, where a is a tunable parameter with values 0.8, 1 .0, 2 .0, and 4 .0, as shown in Fig. 13 (b). 

Appendix B: The effects of cut off nmax 

Here, we discuss the influence of the site occupation cutoff nmax on the numerical results. For the lSS phases at with parameters μ = 2 .375, MR = 2 .8, t = 0 .125, 

U = 1 .25, increasing cutoff nmax do not alter results. Similiarily, for DW phases, the characteristics remain unchanged. This is because the on-site interaction is strong ( U/t = 10), which suppresses multiple occupa-tions. However, it cannot be ensured that varying nmax 

has no impact on the results within the SF phase. For this reason, we limit the scope of our work and omit fur-ther analysis of larger nmax values. A comprehensive ex-ploration of this phenomenon will be addressed in future research. 

[1] A. J. Leggett, Can a solid be “Superfluid”?, Phys. Rev. Lett. 25 , 1543 (1970) .

[2] M. Boninsegni and N. V. Prokof’ev, Colloquium: Super-solids: What and where are they?, Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 ,759 (2012) .

[3] G. G. Batrouni, R. T. Scalettar, G. T. Zimanyi, and A. P. Kampf, Supersolids in the Bose-Hubbard hamiltonian, 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 74 , 2527 (1995) .

[4] S. Wessel and M. Troyer, Supersolid Hard-Core Bosons on the Triangular Lattice, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 , 127205 15 

(2005) .

[5] M. Boninsegni and N. Prokof’ev, Supersolid phase of Hard-Core Bosons on a Triangular Lattice, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 , 237204 (2005) .

[6] R. G. Melko, A. Paramekanti, A. A. Burkov, A. Vish-wanath, D. N. Sheng, and L. Balents, Supersolid order from disorder: Hard-Core Bosons on the Triangular Lat-tice, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95 , 127207 (2005) .

[7] D. Jaksch, C. Bruder, J. I. Cirac, C. W. Gardiner, and P. Zoller, Cold Bosonic atoms in optical lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81 , 3108 (1998) .

[8] N. G¨ otting, F. Lohof, and C. Gies, Moir´ e-Bose-Hubbard model for interlayer excitons in twisted transition metal dichalcogenide heterostructures, Phys. Rev. B 105 ,165419 (2022) .

[9] G. G. Batrouni and R. T. Scalettar, Phase separation in Supersolids, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84 , 1599 (2000) .

[10] F. H´ ebert, G. G. Batrouni, R. T. Scalettar, G. Schmid, M. Troyer, and A. Dorneich, Quantum phase transitions in the two-dimensional hardcore Boson model, Phys. Rev. B 65 , 014513 (2001) .

[11] P. Sengupta, L. P. Pryadko, F. Alet, M. Troyer, and G. Schmid, Supersolids versus phase separation in two-dimensional lattice Bosons, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 , 207202 (2005) .

[12] J. Y. Gan, Y. C. Wen, J. Ye, T. Li, S.-J. Yang, and Y. Yu, Extended Bose—Hubbard model on a honeycomb lattice, 

Phys. Rev. B 75 , 214509 (2007) .

[13] S. V. Isakov, S. Wessel, R. G. Melko, K. Sengupta, and Y. B. Kim, Hard-core Bosons on the kagome lattice: Valence-bond Solids and their quantum melting, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 , 147202 (2006) .

[14] S. V. Isakov, K. Sengupta, and Y. B. Kim, Bose—Hubbard model on a star lattice, Phys. Rev. B 

80 , 214503 (2009) .

[15] Z. Y. Meng and S. Wessel, Phases and magnetization process of an anisotropic shastry-sutherland model, Phys. Rev. B 78 , 224416 (2008) .

[16] C. Menotti, C. Trefzger, and M. Lewenstein, Metastable states of a gas of dipolar Bosons in a 2D optical lattice, 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 , 235301 (2007) .

[17] C. Kollath, J. S. Meyer, and T. Giamarchi, Dipolar Bosons in a planar array of one-dimensional tubes, Phys. Rev. Lett. 100 , 130403 (2008) .

[18] C. Trefzger, C. Menotti, and M. Lewenstein, Pair-Supersolid phase in a bilayer system of dipolar lattice Bosons, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 , 035304 (2009) .

[19] I. Danshita and C. A. R. S´ a de Melo, Stability of Super-fluid and Supersolid Phases of Dipolar Bosons in Optical Lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 , 225301 (2009) .

[20] L. Pollet, J. D. Picon, H. P. B¨ uchler, and M. Troyer, Su-persolid phase with cold polar molecules on a triangular lattice, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 , 125302 (2010) .

[21] S. Gopalakrishnan, I. Martin, and E. A. Demler, Quan-tum quasicrystals of spin-orbit-coupled dipolar Bosons, 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 111 , 185304 (2013) .

[22] D. Grimmer, A. Safavi-Naini, B. Capogrosso-Sansone, and I. G. S¨ oyler, Quantum phases of dipolar soft-core bosons, Phys. Rev. A 90 , 043635 (2014) .

[23] Z.-K. Lu, Y. Li, D. S. Petrov, and G. V. Shlyapnikov, Sta-ble dilute Supersolid of two-dimensional dipolar Bosons, 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 115 , 075303 (2015) .

[24] A. Macia, J. S´ anchez-Baena, J. Boronat, and F. Maz-zanti, Droplets of trapped quantum dipolar Bosons, 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 117 , 205301 (2016) .

[25] W. Han, X.-F. Zhang, D.-S. Wang, H.-F. Jiang, W. Zhang, and S.-G. Zhang, Chiral Supersolid in spin-orbit-coupled Bose gases with soft-core long-range inter-actions, Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 030404 (2018) .

[26] I. Morera, R. Oldziejewski, G. E. Astrakharchik, and B. Juli´ a-D´ ıaz, Superexchange liquefaction of strongly cor-related lattice dipolar Bosons, Phys. Rev. Lett. 130 ,023602 (2023) .

[27] E. Kim and M. H. W. Chan, Probable observation of a Supersolid helium phase, Nature 427 , 225 (2004) .

[28] D. Y. Kim and M. H. W. Chan, Absence of Supersolidity in Solid Helium in Porous Vycor Glass, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

109 , 155301 (2012) .

[29] A. B. Kuklov, L. Pollet, N. V. Prokof’ev, and B. V. Svis-tunov, Quantum plasticity and Supersolid response in helium-4, Phys. Rev. B 90 , 184508 (2014) .

[30] J. L´ eonard, A. Morales, P. Zupancic, T. Esslinger, and T. Donner, Supersolid formation in a quantum gas break-ing a continuous translational symmetry, Nature 543 , 87 (2017) .

[31] J.-R. Li, J. Lee, W. Huang, S. Burchesky, B. Shteynas, F. C ¸ . Top, A. O. Jamison, and W. Ketterle, A stripe phase with Supersolid properties in spin–orbit-coupled Bose-Einstein condensates, Nature 543 , 91 (2017) .

[32] L. Tanzi, S. M. Roccuzzo, E. Lucioni, F. Fam` a, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, G. Modugno, A. Recati, and S. Stringari, Supersolid symmetry breaking from com-pressional oscillations in a dipolar quantum gas, Nature 

574 , 382 (2019) .

[33] L. Chomaz, D. Petter, P. Ilzh¨ ofer, G. Natale, A. Traut-mann, C. Politi, G. Durastante, R. M. W. van Bijnen, A. Patscheider, M. Sohmen, M. J. Mark, and F. Ferlaino, Long-lived and transient supersolid behaviors in dipolar quantum gases, Phys. Rev. X 9, 021012 (2019) .

[34] F. B¨ ottcher, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Wenzel, J. Hertkorn, M. Guo, T. Langen, and T. Pfau, Transient supersolid properties in an array of dipolar quantum droplets, Phys. Rev. X 9, 011051 (2019) .

[35] C. Lagoin, U. Bhattacharya, T. Grass, R. W. Chhajlany, T. Salamon, K. Baldwin, L. Pfeiffer, M. Lewenstein, M. Holzmann, and F. Dubin, Extended bose–hubbard model with dipolar excitons, Nature 609 , 485 (2022) .

[36] D. Trypogeorgos, A. Gianfrate, M. Landini, D. Nigro, D. Gerace, I. Carusotto, F. Riminucci, K. W. Baldwin, L. N. Pfeiffer, G. I. Martone, M. De Giorgi, D. Ballar-ini, and D. Sanvitto, Emerging supersolidity in photonic-crystal polariton condensates, Nature 639 , 337 (2025) .

[37] Y. He, H. Zhen, M. K. Parit, M. Huang, N. Defenu, J. Boronat, J. S´ anchez-Baena, and G.-B. Jo, Observa-tion of a supersolid stripe state in two-dimensional dipo-lar gases (2025), arXiv:2512.13280 [cond-mat.quant-gas] .

[38] J. Xiang, C. Zhang, Y. Gao, W. Schmidt, K. Schmalzl, C.-W. Wang, B. Li, N. Xi, X.-Y. Liu, H. Jin, G. Li, J. Shen, Z. Chen, Y. Qi, Y. Wan, W. Jin, W. Li, P. Sun, and G. Su, Giant magnetocaloric effect in spin Supersolid candidate Na 2BaCo(PO 4 )2, Nature 625 , 270 (2024) .

[39] M. Zhu, L. M. Chinellato, V. Romerio, N. Murai, S. Ohira-Kawamura, C. Balz, Z. Yan, S. Gvasaliya, Y. Kato, C. D. Batista, and A. Zheludev, Wannier states and spin Supersolid physics in the triangular antifer-romagnet K 2Co(SeO 3)2, npj Quantum Mater. 10 , 74 (2025) .16 

[40] N. Liebster, M. Sparn, E. Kath, J. Duchene, H. Strobel, and M. K. Oberthaler, Supersolid-like sound modes in a driven quantum gas, Nat. Phys. 21 , 1064 (2025) .

[41] Z. Meng, L. Wang, W. Han, F. Liu, K. Wen, C. Gao, P. Wang, C. Chin, and J. Zhang, Atomic Bose–Einstein condensate in twisted-bilayer optical lattices, Nature 

615 , 231–236 (2023) .

[42] D. Vu and S. Das Sarma, Moir´ e versus Mott: Incommen-suration and interaction in one-dimensional bichromatic lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett. 126 , 036803 (2021) .

[43] N. M. Hugenholtz and D. Pines, Ground-state energy and excitation spectrum of a system of interacting Bosons, 

Phys. Rev. 116 , 489 (1959) .

[44] E. P. Gross, Structure of a quantized vortex in Boson systems, Nuovo Cim. 20 , 454 (1961) .

[45] S. R. White, Density matrix formulation for quantum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. Lett. 69 , 2863 (1992) .

[46] W. S. Bakr, J. I. Gillen, A. Peng, S. F¨ olling, and M. Greiner, A quantum gas microscope for detecting sin-gle atoms in a Hubbard-regime optical lattice, Nature 

462 , 74 (2009) .

[47] C. Gross and W. S. Bakr, Quantum gas microscopy for single atom and spin detection, Nat. Phys. 17 , 1316 (2021) .

[48] M. P. A. Fisher, P. B. Weichman, G. Grinstein, and D. S. Fisher, Boson localization and the superfluid-insulator transition, Phys. Rev. B 40 , 546 (1989) .

[49] T. St¨ oferle, H. Moritz, C. Schori, M. K¨ ohl, and T. Esslinger, Transition from a strongly interacting 1D Superfluid to a Mott insulator, Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 ,130403 (2004) .

[50] I. Bloch, J. Dalibard, and W. Zwerger, Many-body physics with ultracold gases, Rev. Mod. Phys. 80 , 885 (2008) .

[51] W. Zwerger, Mott–hubbard transition of cold atoms in optical lattices, J. Opt. B: Quantum Semiclass. Opt. 5,S9 (2003) .

[52] W. Zhang, R. Yin, and Y. Wang, Pair supersolid with atom-pair hopping on the state-dependent triangular lat-tice, Phys. Rev. B 88 , 174515 (2013) .

[53] W. Zhang, S. Greschner, E. Fan, T. C. Scott, and Y. Zhang, Ground-state properties of the one-dimensional unconstrained pseudo-anyon Hubbard model, Phys. Rev. A 95 , 053614 (2017) .

[54] T. Keilmann, S. Lanzmich, I. McCulloch, and M. Roncaglia, Statistically induced phase transitions and anyons in 1D optical lattices, Nat. Commun. 2, 361 (2011) .

[55] S. Greschner and L. Santos, Anyon hubbard model in one-dimensional optical lattices, Phys. Rev. Lett. 115 ,053002 (2015) .

[56] S. R. White, Density-matrix algorithms for quantum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 10345 (1993) .

[57] E. Stoudenmire and S. R. White, Studying Two-Dimensional Systems with the Density Matrix Renormal-ization Group, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 3, 111 (2012) .

[58] M. Fishman, S. R. White, and E. M. Stoudenmire, The ITensor Software Library for Tensor Network Calcula-tions, Scipost Phys. , 4 (2022) .

[59] U. Schollw¨ ock, The density-matrix renormalization group in the age of matrix product states, Ann. Phys. 326 ,96–192 (2011) .

[60] S. R. White, Density matrix renormalization group algo-rithms with a single center site, Phys. Rev. B 72 , 180403 (2005) .

[61] O. F. Sylju˚ asen and M. B. Zvonarev, Directed-loop monte carlo simulations of vertex models, Phys. Rev. E 70 ,016118 (2004) .

[62] Y. Kato, Q. Zhou, N. Kawashima, and N. Trivedi, Sharp peaks in the momentum distribution of Bosons in optical lattices in the normal state, Nat. Phys. 4, 617 (2008) .

[63] P. T. Ernst, S. G¨ otze, J. S. Krauser, K. Pyka, D.-S. L¨ uhmann, D. Pfannkuche, and K. Sengstock, Probing su-perfluids in optical lattices by momentum-resolved bragg spectroscopy, Nat. Phys. 6, 56 (2010) .

[64] Y. Guo, H. Yao, S. Ramanjanappa, S. Dhar, M. Hor-vath, L. Pizzino, T. Giamarchi, M. Landini, and H.-C. N¨ agerl, Observation of the 2D–1D crossover in strongly interacting ultracold Bosons, Nat. Phys. 20 , 934 (2024) .

[65] F. Gerbier, A. Widera, S. F¨ olling, O. Mandel, T. Gericke, and I. Bloch, Interference pattern and visibility of a Mott insulator, Phys. Rev. A 72 , 053606 (2005) .

[66] C. Zhang, Z. Fan, B. Capogrosso-Sansone, and Y. Deng, Dipolar bosons in a twisted bilayer geometry, Phys. Rev. B 111 , 024511 (2025) .

[67] S.-H. Ding, L.-J. Lang, Q. Zhu, and L. He, Interaction-induced reentrance of bose glass and quench dynamics of bose gases in twisted bilayer and quasicrystal optical lattices, Phys. Rev. A 112 , 033322 (2025) .

[68] J.-H. Zeng, Q. Zhu, and L. He, Interaction-induced moir´ esystems in twisted bilayer optical lattices, Phys. Rev. A 

111 , 063317 (2025) .

[69] L. Du, P. Barral, M. Cantara, J. de Hond, Y.-K. Lu, and W. Ketterle, Atomic physics on a 50-nm scale: Realiza-tion of a bilayer system of dipolar atoms, Science 384 ,546 (2024) .

[70] M. Greiner, O. Mandel, T. Esslinger, T. W. H¨ ansch, and I. Bloch, Quantum phase transition from a superfluid to a mott insulator in a gas of ultracold atoms, Nature 415 ,39 (2002) .

[71] Z. Fan, J. Wang, and Y. Li, Floquet-engineered moir´ equasicrystal patterns of ultracold bose gases in twisted bilayer optical lattices, Phys. Lett. A 532 , 131646 (2026) .

[72] D. Johnstone, P. ¨Ohberg, and C. W. Duncan, The mean-field Bose glass in quasicrystalline systems, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 54 , 395001 (2021) .

[73] M. McDonald, J. Trisnadi, K.-X. Yao, and C. Chin, Su-perresolution microscopy of cold atoms in an optical lat-tice, Phys. Rev. X 9, 021001 (2019) .

[74] E.-N. Fan, T. C. Scott, and W.-Z. Zhang, Off-site trimer superfluid on a one-dimensional optical lattice, Chin. Phys. B 26 , 043701 (2017) .

[75] L. Guo, S. Greschner, S. Zhu, and W. Zhang, Supersolid and pair correlations of the extended Jaynes-Cummings-Hubbard model on triangular lattices, Phys. Rev. A 100 ,033614 (2019) .

[76] G. G. Batrouni, F. H´ ebert, and R. T. Scalettar, Super-solid phases in the one-dimensional extended soft-core Bosonic Bubbard model, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 , 087209 (2006) .

[77] C. Wang, C. Gao, J. Zhang, H. Zhai, and Z.-Y. Shi, Three-dimensional Moir´ e crystal in ultracold atomic gases, Phys. Rev. Lett. 133 , 163401 (2024) .

[78] N. Marzari and D. Vanderbilt, Maximally localized gen-eralized wannier functions for composite energy bands, 17 

Phys. Rev. B 56 , 12847 (1997) .

[79] Agdelma, BoseHubbard (2023).