Title: Spin-charge separation in two-leg t-J ladders

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.09705v1

Published Time: Tue, 12 May 2026 02:16:57 GMT

Number of Pages: 9

Markdown Content:
# Spin-charge separation in two-leg t − J ladders 

Luhang Yang 1, ∗ and Elbio Dagotto 1, 2 

> 1

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee 37996, USA 

> 2

Materials Science and Technology Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee 37831, USA 

Spin–charge separation is a hallmark of one-dimensional fermionic systems, yet its realization in higher dimensions remains an open question. To address this issue, we investigate a two-leg t − J

ladder using the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method and its time-dependent extension. By analyzing ground-state correlations and single-particle removal spectra, we system-atically examine the effects of plaquette diagonal hopping, spin exchange, and hole doping. Within appropriate parameter regimes, these factors drive the system from the well-known Luther Emery phase, with gapped spin and gapless charge modes, into a Luttinger liquid phase characterized by gapless spin and charge excitations, where signatures of spin–charge separation emerge. In combina-tion with previous studies using exact diagonalization, our results provide evidence that spin–charge separation may persist in wider ladder systems. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Spin–charge separation (SCS) is a typical example of non-Fermi-liquid behavior in interacting electron systems [1–7]. It was originally proposed and experimentally observed in one-dimensional materials [8–12] and has since been explored in certain quasi-one-dimensional and higher-dimensional systems [13–18]. Recently, SCS has attracted increasing interest for its potential applications in spintronics [19] and electronic devices [12, 20], as well as cold-atom studies [21]. In one-dimensional electron chains, SCS is well un-derstood within the framework of Tomonaga–Luttinger liquid (TLL) theory, which uses bosonization and a lin-earization of the dispersion near the Fermi points [22]. Within this description, spin and charge degrees of free-dom emerge as deconfined excitations. In contrast, the two-dimensional square lattice in Hubbard-like models exhibits long-range magnetic order near half filling, which strongly confines spin and charge degrees of freedom, thus SCS is widely considered as absent in this case. As an intermediate setting between one and two dimensions, ladder systems provide a useful platform for understand-ing the relationships among different instabilities while remaining computationally feasible [23–25]. Indications of SCS have been reported in ladders under appropriate conditions, such as the inclusion of additional hopping terms [13, 14]. More recently, frustrated lattices, includ-ing honeycomb and kagome geometries have also been suggested to host SCS-like behavior [26, 27]. These obser-vations lie beyond the conventional Tomonaga–Luttinger liquid (TLL) framework and call for a broader under-standing of the conditions under which SCS can emerge. While the quasi-long range order of antiferromag-netism is not the direct origin of spin–charge separation within the TLL framework, it plays a crucial role in deter-mining the nature of spin excitations. In one-dimensional systems, quasi-long-range antiferromagnetic (AFM) cor- 

> ∗luhangyang@utk.edu

relations give rise to gapless spinon excitations. At the same time, these correlations are not strong enough to confine spin and charge, allowing for their separation. In contrast, two-leg ladder systems exhibit qualita-tively different behavior. At half filling, multiple studies [13–15] have shown that the ground state can be quali-tatively described as a rung-singlet state, with spin sin-glets at every rung. This state has a finite spin gap. In the limit where the superexchange Jrung is much larger than the leg superexchange Jleg , the dominance of the rung-singlet state becomes exact. As a result, separating spin and charge degrees of freedom requires breaking the spin bound state on the rung (i.e. breaking the singlet), which costs a finite energy. Consequently, it is gener-ally believed that SCS is absent in two-leg ladders at half filling for the Hubbard or t − J models with nearest-neighbors (NN) hopping. By introducing next-nearest-neighbor (NNN) hopping and/or hole doping, the ground state of the two-leg ladder can be significantly modified. In particular, for negative NNN hopping, relative to the NN value, we show that the spin sector becomes gapless both for the undoped and low-hole doping cases, and the system enters a Luttinger liquid phase [28], which opens the possibility for spin–charge separation (SCS). To identify the key ingredients that favor the emer-gence of SCS, we use numerical methods to investigate the nature of single-particle excitations in a two-leg t − J

ladder with NNN hopping. We aim to provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the emergence of SCS and its possible realization in more general lattice sys-tems. 

II. MODEL AND METHOD 

We study the t1 − t2 − J model on two leg ladders, of which the Hamiltonian is: 

Ht1−t2−J = −t1

P 

> r,σ

(c† 

> r,σ

cr+ ˆδ1,σ + h.c. )

−t2

P 

> r,σ

(c† 

> r,σ

cr+ ˆδ2,σ + h.c. )

> arXiv:2605.09705v1 [cond-mat.str-el] 10 May 2026

2

> FIG. 1. Lattice structure of the two-leg ladder.

+J P

> r

(⃗Sr ·⃗ Sr+ ˆδ1 − 14nrnr+ ˆδ1 ) (1) where ⃗ Sr is the spin S = 1 /2 operator at position r,and J parametrizes the spin exchange, t1 represents NN hopping, and t2 is the parameter for NNN hopping. We set t1 = 1 throughout our study, thus the use of t2/t 1 and 

t2 are interchangeable. The distances are given by the lattice vectors ˆδ1 = (0 , 1) or (1 , 0) for NN hopping, and ˆδ2 = (1 , 1) or (1 , −1) for NNN hopping. We adopt small values of J (= 0 .2 and 0 .4) so that this t − J model can represent the physics of the hole-doped Hubbard model with large U (≃ 4t21/J ) [29]. We use the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) method [30, 31] to investigate the ground-state properties of two-leg ladders with lengths ranging from 16 to 64 sites along the leg ( x) direction. The bond di-mension is taken up to m = 1200, ensuring a truncation error no larger than 10 −6. To probe dynamical proper-ties, we use time-dependent DMRG (tDMRG) [32–35] to compute the single-particle removal spectral function of the t1 −t2 −J ladder. The tDMRG calculations are imple-mented by grouping each rung into a composite site and applying a Suzuki–Trotter decomposition for the time-evolution operator. We compute the real-time correlation functions 

⟨c† 

> i

(t)cj (0) ⟩ with a time step τ = 0 .05 up to a maxi-mum time T = 60. The momentum and frequency re-solved spectra are then obtained via Fourier transforma-tion, supplemented by a Lorentzian broadening of width 

ϵ = 0 .1 to reduce finite-time window artifacts, such as ringing [32].     

> III. EFFECTS OF t2AND J

The half-filled two-leg ladder with only nearest-neighbor hopping and strong rung coupling has a ground state dominated by rung singlets [23, 24, 36]. By in-troducing a single hole, and if the rung superexchange is robust, then the hole and the spin on the same rung form a bound state (that we refer to as “polaron” in this pub-lication) that propagates as a composite object. Because the rung-singlet state is believed to provide a qualita-tively good description for all coupling (unless the chains fully decouple from each other), then this perspective expresses that the polarons merely change their size as the superexchange decreases, but the hole and spin cloud remain together. In this regime, the system behaves sim-ilarly to a band insulator, exhibiting a cosine-like disper-sion in the photoemission spectrum [37]. As the rung cou-pling decreases toward the isotropic limit (namely when the J of rungs and legs are the same, and the NN hop-pings of rungs and legs are the same), the system can undergo a crossover from a band insulator (strong-rung limit) to a spin-liquid regime (strong-leg limit), depend-ing on parameters such as doping or plaquette diagonal hopping (also often referred to as t’ ). In this process, the spin correlation length along the leg direction increases, and the polaron extends over mul-tiple rungs and legs. Consequently, hole motion can be characterized by two distinct modes: in one, the holon remains bounded with the spin excitations, giving rise to a coherent peak in the spectral function; in the other, the holon propagates through a background of incoher-ent spin fluctuations in the near range, behaving effec-tively as a spinless fermion in a one-dimensional chain [37]. The inclusion of a negative NNN hopping is be-lieved to enhance the mobility of the holon along the leg direction. An earlier Lanczos study reported signatures of spin-charge separation at least in the short range, and demonstrated that the holon motion under these condi-tions can be approximated by that of an effective one-dimensional chain [13]. To elucidate how the NNN hopping affects the low-energy dynamics, we first compute the ground state spin–spin correlations across a hole. This quantity was introduced years ago as a way to judge the degree of spin-charge separation [13]. Figure 2 (a), reproduced from Ref. [13], illustrates the qualitative concept intro-duced in that early work, providing a local framework in which holes can become decoupled from spins. The figure depicts a hole at the center, with the surrounding spins forming spin singlets. When the spins surrounding a hole are coupled in spin singlets, then the movement of the hole decouples from the spins: as the hole moves, the spins adapt, keeping the singlet formation across the hole. While in ladders or two-dimensional geometries, this is a local approximate concept that requires computa-tional testing for quantitative confirmation, in the limit of infinite Hubbard U using the one-dimensional Hub-bard model, the idea becomes exact. In this limit, holes and spins are fully decoupled and the many-body wave function can be written exactly as the product of the spin sector wave function, as if the holes were not there, times the wave function of the holons, as if the spins were not there [38]. Because the spin sector in this limit is AFM at least at short distances, then the spins couple antifer-romagnetically across each hole. Previous computational tests using small clusters [13] suggest that this concept remains approximately valid in ladders but only after the addition of nearest-neighbor hopping with the proper sign. Namely the two spins next to the hole are antiferromagnetically coupled to one another depending on values of parameters in the Hamil-tonian. This allows the hole to move without fighting 3against the spin background [13, 14], as it occurs in the Ogata-Shiba limit of the Hubbard chain [38]. In the present study, we investigate whether the across-the-hole antiferromagnetism concept remains valid for two-leg lad-ders within a specific parameter regime when employing both DMRG and tDMRG techniques, improving the clus-ter sizes accesible to exact diagonalization and adding the dynamical component. Specifically, we study dynami-cal spectral functions that support the tendency to spin charge separation in special regions of parameter space in the extended t − J model, as discussed later in this publication. To address the spin across the hole concept, we focus on the observable ⟨Sz (Lx/2 − 1, 0) nh(Lx/2, 0) Sz (Lx/2 + 1, 0) ⟩, as a function of t2. Via the number operator nh,we make sure that the hole is located at the center of the ladder, denoted by ( Lx/2, 0), to minimize edge effects. The results for different doping densities are shown in Fig. 2 (b)-(d). The correlation is always negative, in-dicating that the spins around the hole are antiferro-magnetically aligned, but with different strengths. More specifically, as t2 increases toward positive values, the AFM coupling magnitude decreases. As t2 increases in magnitude towards more negative values, the AFM cou-pling increases. If the spinon and holon are strongly con-fined, the spins around the hole were found to be ferro-magnetically aligned [39]. In contrast, if they deconfine, the spin-spin correlations around the hole should become antiferromagnetic. Therefore, the observed enhancement of the AFM correlations accross the hole as the magni-tude of negative t2 increases is qualitatively related to spin-charge separation, as conjectured in previous publi-cations using small clusters [13]. We then compute the ground state spin–spin corre-lation along rungs, ⟨Sz (i, 0) nh(Lx/2, 0) Sz (i, 1) ⟩, where (Lx/2, 0) again denotes the position of the hole at the center of the ladder. The results for a lightly hole doped system are shown in Fig. 3 (top panel), where we plot the rung correlations for different values of t2. The cor-relation vanishes at the rung containing the hole, and gradually recovers to its undoped value far from the hole. The spatial range over which the correlation is suppressed provides an estimation of the polaron size [39]. From these results, we find that a negative t2 significantly en-larges the polaron, whereas for small or positive t2, the polaron remains largely confined to the middle rung. It is clear to the eye, that the negative and positive t2 regions are qualitatively different, supporting again the notion that negative t2 separates spin and charge. The enlargement of the polaron size signals the de-confinement of the holon and the spin excitations. It is also a precursor to the emergence of quasi–spin–charge separation, as the “free” hole motion begins to domi-nate over the coherent quasiparticle dynamics. This leads to a suppression of the coherent peak and a redistribu-tion of spectral weight in the photoemission spectrum. To illustrate this effect, we compute the photoemission spectra of the ladder at half filling for both positive and       

> FIG. 2. (a): Sketch of spin-spin correlations from Ref. [13], illustrating the concept of spin-charge separation via the for-mation of spin singlets across the hole. (b)-(c): Spin-spin cor-relations across a hole as a function of t2, for different doping densities. The spins considered here are located on the sites adjacent to the hole along the same leg, and the correlation is defined in the vertical axis label. These results are obtained using DMRG for ladders of length Lx = 32 with J= 0 .2.

negative t2 using tDMRG. The results of photoemission spectrum, i.e. single-particle removal function, are dis-played in Fig. 4. As t2 changes from positive to neg-ative, the low-energy polaron dispersion evolves from a simple cosine-like form into a band with two local min-ima, indicating the emergence of effective longer-range (second-order) hopping processes mediated by the spin background. Moreover, a continuum emerges from the lowest-energy peak and becomes separated from it by a small gap. This indicates the coexistence of SCS-like be-havior and hole motion in the incoherent spin background [40]. 4          

> FIG. 3. Spin-spin correlations for spins in the same rung, as a function of rung position, for the case of one hole (see definition of the quantity measured in the main text). We focus on the case where the hole is at the center of the ladder studied. The results are obtained using DMRG for ladders of length 32 with J= 0 .2. Top: 1 /16 hole doping; Bottom: 1 /8hole doping.
> FIG. 4. Single-particle removal function, A(k, ω ), for J= 0 .4at half-filling. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length Lx= 32.

We extract the lowest energy peak of the single-particle removal spectrum A(ω) at several momenta k, and plot it as a function of t2. The results are shown in Fig. 5. We find the low-energy spectral weight at ( π, 0), (0 , π ), and (π/ 2, π ) are all decreasing substantially as t2 becomes negative. The reduction of the quasiparticle weight ZK,linked one-to-one with the peak height, is typically as-sociated with spin and charge separation. However, we        

> FIG. 5. The height of the first excitation peak in the pho-toemission spectrum as a function of t2at different momenta. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length
> Lx= 16 at half-filling. Note that for some momenta the value decreases substantially as t2becomes more negative, while for one momentum ( π/ 2,0) the values are approximately con-stant, indicating that the effect we are investigating is mo-mentum dependent.

also observe that the spin-charge separation behavior is momentum dependent. Opposite to the other cases, at momentum ( π/ 2, 0) the height of the first excitation peak remains nearly unchanged as t2 varies. This momentum-dependent behavior is consistent with previous studies in similar settings and using different many-body tech-niques [13, 17]. It is worth noting that the peaks of our focus do not necessarily correspond to well-defined quasiparticle weights, but instead they could be a combination of both coherent and incoherent excitations. Nevertheless, the clear suppression of the magnitudes of the peaks indicates the diminishing of the associated quasi-particle charac-ters. Our results indicate that the energy of the polaron is bounded by the spin exchange scale J and remains within an energy window of order J below the Fermi level. As shown in Fig. 6, decreasing J causes the avoided level crossing to shift and cut through the polaron band. This also indicates that the low-energy dispersion arises from confined excitations.  

> IV. EFFECTS OF HOLE DOPING

Hole doping introduces richer physics to two-leg lad-ders [23, 24]. The presence of doped holes weakens the rung-singlet bonds, thus enhances charge and spin dy-namics along the legs. In the presence of next-nearest-neighbor (NNN) hopping, both hole doping and diagonal hopping promote magnetic excitations and charge motion along the leg direction [41]. The enhanced mobility is closely related to the ground-5                  

> FIG. 6. Single-particle removal function for t2=−0.3 at half-filling. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length Lx= 16. The white and magenta lines are representing Fermi surface and Jrespectively.
> FIG. 7. Left: Spin-spin correlations for the ladder with doping density δn= 0 .0625 with various values of t2.Right: Spin gap extrapolated to the thermodynamic limit for the doped
> t1−t2−Jchain upon 1 /16 hole doping with varying t2. The results are obtained using DMRG for ladders of lengths from 16 to 64, and they indicate a clear transition from spin gapped to spin gapless states.

state properties. In Ref. [28], one of the authors demon-strated that the three band Hubbard ladder can be mapped to a lightly doped two-leg t − J ladder with 

t2/t 1 ∼ − 0.4 and J/t 1 ∼ 0.4, and it realizes a Luttinger liquid (LL) phase, in which both the spin and charge sec-tors are gapless. Although this previous study did not dive into the transition in the dynamics, one would nat-urally expect the characteristic properties of a Luttinger liquid to emerge, including SCS. We first verify the transition from the rung-singlet dominated phase to a quasi-long-range ordered phase upon doping by examining ground-state correlations. In particular, we compute the spin-spin correlation function 

⟨Sz

> (0 ,0)

Sz

> (r, 0)

⟩ for varying values of t2/t 1 at a hole doping level of 1 /16, where (0 , 0) denotes the reference site lo-cated at Lx/8 from one end of the ladder to minimize boundary effects. The results for different values of t2

are shown in Fig. 7 (left panel) on a log-log scale, which facilitates the identification of the power-law decay char-acteristic of quasi-long-range order. We find that as t2

decreases, the correlation length keeps increasing. At 

t2 = −0.6, the correlation exhibit algebraic decay, indi-cating that the system has transitioned out of the rung-singlet phase and the spin gap closes. We further support these results by calculating explicitly the spin gaps ex-trapolated to the thermodynamic limit, and the results are shown in Fig. 7 (right panel). We clearly find that the spin gap closes for t2 ≤ − 0.4, among the most im-portant results of this publication. The extrapolation for each t2 value is shown in Appendix A. This suggests that a transition from the canonical Luther-Emery regime to the Tomonaga-Luttinger regime has taken place by mov-ing t2 into more and more negative values [42]. We next examine how doping affects the excitations by computing the photoemission spectra at different doping levels. The results for 32 × 2 ladders are shown in Fig. 8. As the doping is introduced, the spin–charge separation continuum evolves from a regime where the holon moves in a background of incoherent spin fluctuations to one where it moves in a spin-liquid background, resembling the behavior in one-dimensional chains, where spinons and holons propagate with different velocities. Compar-ing Fig. 4 (a, b) and Fig. 8 (a, d), we find that the avoided level crossing in the holon branch at ( kx = 0 , k y = 0) dis-appears upon doping. For positive t2 (panels (d), (f)), the hole is bounded to the spin on the same rung (see Fig. 3), forming a composite excitation. As a result, the dispersion in the photoemission spectrum resembles that of the conventional electron band centered at π in the bonding channel. As t2 decreases (panels (b), (c)), the single cosine-like band evolves into one with two lo-cal minima, and the spin-charge separation continuum emerges at higher energies, which is separated from the low-energy polaron band. As t2 decrease further (panel (a)), the low-energy feature between π/ 2 to π fades, indi-cating the disappearence of the polaron mode, and spin-charge separation becomes the dominating excitations in the ladder. This behavior is also supported by the spin-spin across a hole [13, 39] correlation shown in Fig. 3 (bottom) for 1/8 hole dopping. When t2 enters the LL regime, the po-laron extends to the entire system, indicating the break-down of the bound states, and only the dynamics of sep-arated holes and spins is left. It it worth noting that, within the current numerical resolution, it remains un-clear whether the spin–charge separation continuum is separated from the polaron band by a finite gap. Thus, whether the polaron band is completely absent at this parameter set ( t2 = −0.4, n = 15 /16), or not, requires further investigation. 6        

> FIG. 8. Photoemission spectrum for various values of t2with 1 /16 hole doping. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length Lx= 32 and J= 0 .4.

In the one-dimensional spin–charge separation picture, the spinon dispersion is given by πJ |sin (kx − π/ 2) |/2for ( |kx| ≤ π/ 2), while the holon dispersion follows 

−2t1cos (kx). In the two-leg ladder systems, our numeri-cal results show that the holon branches retain a cosine-like dispersion characteristic of one-dimensional systems. In Fig. 8 (a), (b) we plot the spinon and holon disper-sions, which coincide well with the spectral peaks or con-tinuum edges for negative t2. These results provide ro-bust evidence that spin–charge separation in this regime arises from effectively weakly decoupled chains [37], each with doping density δ, rather than from the ladder as a whole. A key distinction is that, in the case where SCS is induced by doping and NNN hopping, the avoided level crossing is absent. To better visualize the holon branch, we plot the spec-tral function along the cut kx = π/ 2 in the bonding channel (Fig. 9), which lies close to the effective Fermi momentum kF of a one-dimensional chain. If the sys-tem recovers the one-dimensional spin-charge separation picture and the first excitation peak corresponds to the top of the holon branch, the bottom of the holon branch would be at −4t1. We therefore mark the position of the bottom of the holon branch (at −4t1) with a short gray line, assuming that the first excitation belongs to the holon branch. As t2 decreases toward negative val-ues, the bandwidth approaches the expected value of 4 t1,        

> FIG. 9. Frequency cuts of A(ω) at momentum ( π/ 2,0) for various values of t2. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length Lx= 16. t2decreases from 0.4 to -0.4 in steps of 0.1 for the curves shown from top to bottom. Each curve is shifted by 0.5 for clarity.

and the spectral weight becomes more evenly distributed between the spinon and holon branches. The cut along 

kx = 0 in the bonding channel (Fig. 10) shows that, as t2

decreases, the coherent low-energy mode splits into two 7        

> FIG. 10. Frequency cuts of A(ω) at momentum (0 ,0) for various values of t2. The results are obtained using tDMRG for ladders of length Lx= 16. t2decreases from 0.4 to -0.4 in steps of 0.1 for the curves shown from top to bottom. Each curve is shifted by 0.5 for clarity.

higher-energy modes, accompanied by a redistribution of spectral weight, which also indicates the emergence of spin-charge separation.  

> V. CONCLUSIONS

Our numerical study of the two-leg ladder demon-strates that the nature of spin correlations and spin ex-citations plays an important role in the emergence of spin–charge separation (SCS). For ladders with an even number of legs, the half-filled system is typically spin gapped. In this regime, hole motion is strongly coupled to the spin excitations, leading to the formation of bound states hole-spin (polarons). Consequently, it is nontrivial to identify the conditions under which one-dimensional-like physics can emerge in two-leg t − J ladder systems. By systematically investigating the effects of adding next-nearest-neighbor hopping t2 with the proper sign, as well as hole doping, we find that both factors promote the separation of spin and charge excitations. In the conven-tional Hubbard ladder with only nearest-neighbor hop-ping, the system remains a spin-gapped insulator within a moderate range of hole doping, and the system typically realizes a Luther–Emery phase upon light doping. In con-trast, the three-band Hubbard ladder has been shown to exhibit Luttinger liquid behavior upon light doping, which can be effectively described by a t1 − t2 − J model [28]. Our results for this effective model highlight that both finite doping and negative t2 are essential ingredi-ents for the recovery of 1D-like physics. A natural question is whether the Luttinger liquid phase is a necessary condition for SCS. Our results sug-gest that this is not the case. Previous studies have reported signatures of SCS in the weak-coupling limit of two-leg Hubbard ladders [37], away from the t − J   

> FIG. 11. The finite-size spin gaps as a function of 1 /L x,extrapolated to the thermodynamic limit (1 /Lx →0) using a second-order polynomial fit.

model regime, where a continuum emerges from the po-laron band. Consistently, we find that even at half filling, a large negative t2 can induce SCS upon introducing a single hole. Although an adequate spin correlation is re-quired to support mobile spinon excitations, a fully closed spin gap is not strictly necessary. These findings suggest that SCS can arise beyond strictly one-dimensional systems and may persist in wider ladders. Whether this phenomenon can exist all the way to two-dimensional systems is an intriguing and challenging question that merits further work in the fu-ture. It would also be interesting to find if other Luther-Emery systems, as in the recently proposed multiorbital fermionic generalization of the Haldane chain [43–45], also transition to a TLL by adding additional hoppings.  

> VI. ACKNOWLEDGMENT

This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science, Basic Energy Sciences (BES), Materials Sciences and Engineering Division. 

> Appendix A: Spin gap extrapolations

In Fig. 11 we show the spin gaps extrapolations using a second-order polynomial fit. As t2 decreases, the fit 8becomes increasingly linear, and the fitting error corre- spondingly decreases (see Fig. 7 in main text). 

[1] S. A. Kivelson and D. S. Rokhsar, Bogoliubov quasipar-ticles, spinons, and spin-charge decoupling in supercon-ductors, Phys. Rev. B 41 , 11693 (1990). [2] C. Mudry and E. Fradkin, Separation of spin and charge quantum numbers in strongly correlated systems, Phys. Rev. B 49 , 5200 (1994). [3] H. L. Zhao and S. Hershfield, Tunneling, relaxation of spin-polarized quasiparticles, and spin-charge separation in superconductors, Phys. Rev. B 52 , 3632 (1995). [4] Q. Si, Spin conductivity and spin-charge separation in the high- Tc cuprates, Phys. Rev. Lett. 78 , 1767 (1997). [5] Q. Si, Spin injection into a luttinger liquid, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81 , 3191 (1998). [6] N. Nagaosa, Spin-charge separation in strongly correlated electronic systems, Journal of Physics: Condensed Mat-ter 10 , 11385 (1998). [7] L. Balents and R. Egger, Spin transport in interacting quantum wires and carbon nanotubes, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

85 , 3464 (2000). [8] C. Kim, A. Y. Matsuura, Z.-X. Shen, N. Motoyama, H. Eisaki, S. Uchida, T. Tohyama, and S. Maekawa, Ob-servation of spin-charge separation in one-dimensional 

SrCuO 2, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 , 4054 (1996). [9] M. Sing, U. Schwingenschl¨ ogl, R. Claessen, P. Blaha, J. M. P. Carmelo, L. M. Martelo, P. D. Sacramento, M. Dressel, and C. S. Jacobsen, Electronic structure of the quasi-one-dimensional organic conductor TTF-TCNQ, Phys. Rev. B 68 , 125111 (2003). [10] O. Auslaender, H. Steinberg, A. Yacoby, Y. Tserkovnyak, B. Halperin, K. Baldwin, L. Pfeiffer, and K. West, Spin-charge separation and localization in one dimension, Sci-ence 308 , 88 (2005). [11] B. Kim, H. Koh, E. Rotenberg, S.-J. Oh, H. Eisaki, N. Motoyama, S.-i. Uchida, T. Tohyama, S. Maekawa, Z.-X. Shen, et al. , Distinct spinon and holon dispersions in photoemission spectral functions from one-dimensional 

SrCuO 2, Nature Physics 2, 397 (2006). [12] Y. Jompol, C. Ford, J. Griffiths, I. Farrer, G. Jones, D. Anderson, D. Ritchie, T. Silk, and A. Schofield, Prob-ing spin-charge separation in a tomonaga-luttinger liquid, Science 325 , 597 (2009). [13] G. B. Martins, J. C. Xavier, C. Gazza, M. Vojta, and E. Dagotto, Indications of spin-charge separation at short distance and stripe formation in the extended t-j model on ladders and planes, Phys. Rev. B 63 , 014414 (2000). [14] G. B. Martins, R. Eder, and E. Dagotto, Indications of spin-charge separation in the two-dimensional extended t-j model, Phys. Rev. B 60 , R3716 (1999). [15] T. Tohyama, C. Gazza, C. T. Shih, Y. C. Chen, T. K. Lee, S. Maekawa, and E. Dagotto, Stripe stability in the extended t − J model on planes and four-leg ladders, Phys. Rev. B 59 , R11649 (1999). [16] G. B. Martins, C. Gazza, J. C. Xavier, A. Feiguin, and E. Dagotto, Doped stripes in models for the cuprates emerging from the one-hole properties of the insulator, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84 , 5844 (2000). [17] J. H. Nyhegn, K. K. Nielsen, L. Balents, and G. M. Bruun, Spin-charge bound states and emerging fermions in a quantum spin liquid, PRX Quantum 6, 040347 (2025). [18] J. Hyun, Y. Lee, C.-y. Lim, G. Lee, J. Cha, Y. Ahn, M. Jho, S. Gim, M. Park, M. Hashimoto, D. Lu, Y. Kim, and S. Kim, Band-selective spin-charge separation across the charge density wave transition in quasi-1d N bSe 3,Phys. Rev. Lett. 134 , 206402 (2025). [19] J. Linder and J. W. Robinson, Superconducting spintron-ics, Nature Physics 11 , 307 (2015). [20] A. Rossi, J. C. Thomas, J. T. K¨ uchle, E. Barr´ e, Z. Yu, D. Zhou, S. Kumari, H.-Z. Tsai, E. Wong, C. Jozwiak, 

et al. , Graphene-driven correlated electronic states in one dimensional defects within W S 2, Nature communications 

16 , 5809 (2025). [21] R. Senaratne, D. Cavazos-Cavazos, S. Wang, F. He, Y.-T. Chang, A. Kafle, H. Pu, X.-W. Guan, and R. G. Hulet, Spin-charge separation in a one-dimensional fermi gas with tunable interactions, Science 376 , 1305 (2022). [22] T. Giamarchi, Quantum physics in one dimension , Vol. 121 (Clarendon press, 2003). [23] E. Dagotto, J. Riera, and D. Scalapino, Superconductiv-ity in ladders and coupled planes, Phys. Rev. B 45 , 5744 (1992). [24] E. Dagotto and T. Rice, Surprises on the way from one-to two-dimensional quantum magnets: The ladder materi-als, Science 271 , 618 (1996). [25] E. Dagotto, Experiments on ladders reveal a complex in-terplay between a spin-gapped normal state and super-conductivity, Reports on Progress in Physics 62 , 1525 (1999). [26] A. L¨ auchli and D. Poilblanc, Spin-charge separation in two-dimensional frustrated quantum magnets, Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 , 236404 (2004). [27] J.-J. Miao, Z.-Y. Yue, H. Zhang, W.-Q. Chen, and Z.-C. Gu, Spin-charge separation and unconventional super-conductivity in the t−J model on the honeycomb lattice, Phys. Rev. B 111 , 174518 (2025). [28] L. Yang, T. P. Devereaux, and H.-C. Jiang, Recovery of a luther-emery phase in the three-band hubbard ladder with longer-range hopping, Phys. Rev. B 110 , 014511 (2024). [29] C. Gros, R. Joynt, and T. M. Rice, Antiferromagnetic correlations in almost-localized fermi liquids, Phys. Rev. B 36 , 381 (1987). [30] S. R. White, Density matrix formulation for quantum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. Lett. 69 , 2863 (1992). [31] S. R. White, Density-matrix algorithms for quantum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 10345 (1993). [32] S. R. White and A. E. Feiguin, Real-time evolution us-ing the density matrix renormalization group, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 , 076401 (2004). [33] A. J. Daley, C. Kollath, U. Schollw¨ ock, and G. Vidal, Time-dependent density-matrix renormalization-group using adaptive effective hilbert spaces, Journal of Statis-tical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment 2004 , P04005 (2004). [34] A. E. Feiguin, The density matrix renormalization group method and its time-dependent variants, in XV Training 9

Course in the Physics of Strongly Correlated Systems ,Vol. 1419 (AIP Proceedings, 2011) p. 5. [35] S. Paeckel, T. K¨ ohler, A. Swoboda, S. R. Manmana, U. Schollw¨ ock, and C. Hubig, Time-evolution methods for matrix-product states, Annals of Physics 411 , 167998 (2019). [36] R. Noack, S. White, and D. Scalapino, The ground state of the two-leg hubbard ladder a density-matrix renormal-ization group study, Physica C: Superconductivity 270 ,281 (1996). [37] C. Yang and A. E. Feiguin, Spectral function of mott-insulating hubbard ladders: From fractionalized excita-tions to coherent quasiparticles, Phys. Rev. B 99 , 235117 (2019). [38] M. Ogata and H. Shiba, Bethe-ansatz wave function, mo-mentum distribution, and spin correlation in the one-dimensional strongly correlated hubbard model, Phys. Rev. B 41 , 2326 (1990). [39] L. Yang, I. Hamad, L. O. Manuel, and A. E. Feiguin, Fate of pairing and spin-charge separation in the presence of long-range antiferromagnetism, Phys. Rev. B 105 ,195104 (2022). [40] A. Nocera, F. H. L. Essler, and A. E. Feiguin, Finite-temperature dynamics of the mott insulating hubbard chain, Phys. Rev. B 97 , 045146 (2018). [41] L. Yang, A. E. Feiguin, T. P. Devereaux, and E. Dagotto, Effects of the next-nearest-neighbor hopping on the low-dimensional hubbard model: ferromagnetism, antiferro-magnetism, and superconductivity, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 38 , 023002 (2026). [42] C. S. Hellberg and E. J. Mele, Luttinger-liquid instability in the one-dimensional t-j model, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 646 (1993), where a transition from TLL to Luther-Emery was also observed for the t − J model by numerically projecting the true ground state from a Luttinger liquid wave function, varying J/t and electronic density, and focusing on the crossover from linear to quadratic be-havior at small wave vectors in the spin-spin correlation function S(k). [43] P. Laurell, J. Herbrych, G. Alvarez, and E. Dagotto, Luther-emery liquid and dominant singlet superconduc-tivity in the hole-doped haldane spin-1 chain, Phys. Rev. B 110 , 064515 (2024). [44] N. D. Patel, A. Nocera, G. Alvarez, A. Moreo, and E. Dagotto, Pairing tendencies in a two-orbital hubbard model in one dimension, Phys. Rev. B 96 , 024520 (2017). [45] N. D. Patel, N. Kaushal, A. Nocera, G. Alvarez, and E. Dagotto, Emergence of superconductivity in doped multiorbital hubbard chains, npj Quantum Materials 5,27 (2020).