Title: Lattice Dynamics of LiFeAs studied by Inelastic Neutron Scattering and Density Functional Theory calculations

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.19956v1

Published Time: Mon, 23 Mar 2026 01:00:15 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# Lattice Dynamics of LiFeAs studied by Inelastic Neutron Scattering and Density Functional Theory calculations 

Akshay Tewari ,1, ∗ Navid Qureshi ,1, 2 Rolf Heid, 3 Andrea Piovano, 2 Yvan Sidis, 4, 5 

Luminita Harnagea, 6, 7 Sabine Wurmehl, 6 Bernd B¨ uchner, 6 and Markus Braden 1, †

> 1

II. Physikalisches Institut, Universit¨ at zu K¨ oln, Z¨ ulpicher Str. 77, 50937 K¨ oln, Germany 

> 2

Institut Laue Langevin, BP156X, 38042 Grenoble Cedex, France 

> 3

Institut f¨ ur Quantenmaterialien und Technologien, Karlsruher Institut f¨ ur Technologie (KIT), Postfach 3640, D-76121 Karlsruhe, Germany 

> 4

Universit´ e Paris-Saclay, CNRS, CEA, Laboratoire L´ eon Brillouin, 91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, France 

> 5

Institut Jean Lamour, CNRS UMR 7198, Universit´ e de Lorraine, Vandoeuvre-l` es-Nancy F-54506, France 

> 6

Leibniz-Institut f¨ ur Festk¨ orper u. Werkstoffforschung (IFW) Dresden, Helmholtzstrasse 20, 01069 Dresden, Germany 

> 7

I-HUB Quantum Technology Foundation, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune 411008, India 

(Dated: March 23, 2026) We investigated the lattice dynamics of the unconventional superconductor LiFeAs using inelastic neutron scattering experiments and density-functional theory (DFT) calculations. By comparing the neutron scattering intensities with lattice-dynamics simulations we can identify the polariza-tion symmetry of all modes along the main-symmetry directions yielding a complete experimental picture of the phonon dispersion. Overall there is good agreement between the experimental and DFT results, which renders an overlooked strong electron phonon coupling unlikely. Our DFT cal-culations reveal only a small averaged electron-phonon coupling constant. The transversal acoustic in-plane branches exhibit a normal dispersion for small propagation vectors indicating the absence of a nematic instability. Several modes exhibit considerable hardening upon cooling that can be attributed to the anisotropic shrinking of the LiFeAs lattice. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

The discovery of superconductivity at 26 K in LaFeAsO 1−xFx [1] opened the path to the new class of Fe-based high-temperature superconductors [2]. The materials of this broad family are distinguished by their chemical formula: 1111 (eg. RE FeAsO [1, 3]), 122 (eg. 

AFe 2As 2 with A=Sr, Ba [4, 5]), 111 (eg. AFeAs [6, 7] with A=Li, Na), 11 (eg. Fe X with X=S, Se, Te [8, 9]). Superconductivity can be induced or altered in these compounds via electron or hole doping [10, 11], isovalent substitution [12] or pressure [2, 13]. Theoretical analyses of the electron-phonon coupling yielded only weak in-teraction and rendered a phonon-driven pairing unlikely [14, 15] in agreement with the finding of a weak and in-verse isotope effect [16]. Instead, unconventional super-conductivity was proposed to emerge through magnetic interaction resulting in a s± symmetry of the supercon-ducting order parameter with phase changes between dif-ferent sheets of the Fermi surface [17–21]. In this sce-nario, strong nesting between hole and electron pock-ets drives antiferromagnetic (AFM) order in the parent compounds and the associated AFM fluctuations medi-ate superconducting pairing. The emergence of strong spin-resonance modes in the superconducting state and the phase diagrams with neighboring or even compet-ing AFM and superconducting phases give strong sup-port for this spin-fluctuation mediated coupling mech-anism [20, 22]. Spin-orbit coupling results in spin-space   

> ∗tewari@ph2.uni-koeln.de
> †braden@ph2.uni-koeln.de

anisotropy of the magnetic excitations in the parent com-pounds [23, 24] as well as in the superconducting materi-als, in which split and anisotropic spin-resonance modes emerge [25]. Including the spin-orbit interaction on a random-phase-approximation level, Scherer and Ander-sen qualitatively explain the experimental observations of anisotropy [26–28] underlining the reliability of this ap-proach. The magnetic ordering, which breaks the tetrag-onal symmetry of the ideal layers, is associated with an electronic ordering that frequently precedes the onset of magnetic order. Since there is strong evidence that the orthorhombic strain is not the primary order parameter of this transition, the state is called nematic (a breaking of rotational symmetry without loss of translation sym-metry) [29–31]. However, the possible role of nematicity in the superconducting pairing remains an open issue. The multiorbital character of the Fe-based compounds has strong impact not only on the superconducting state but also on the normal state as the local Hund’s interac-tion becomes prominent [32]. There are only a few materials that exhibit su-perconductivity in their pristine form including FeSe, CaKFe 4As 4 and LiFeAs [31] and these attracted spe-cial attention already due to the lack of intrinsic disor-der, which is particularly favorable for surface-sensitive studies. LiFeAs was synthesized in 1968 [33] but only little investigated till the discovery of its superconduc-tivity in 2008 [34, 35]. The critical temperature, Tc,values range between 16 K and 18 K in the literature [34, 36–44] most likely due to the sensitivity on vacancies, and superconductivity is totally suppressed for y ∼ 2% in Li 1−y Fe 1+ y As [39]. The sister compound NaFeAs exhibits the common tetragonal to orthorhombic phase 

> arXiv:2603.19956v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 20 Mar 2026

2transition at ∼60 K and AFM order at ∼45 K [45, 46], in contrast LiFeAs remains tetragonal and paramagnetic to the lowest temperatures [34, 35, 40]. In other Fe-based superconductors Tc typically emerges or increases by applying pressure or doping, while Tc only diminishes in LiFeAs. Upon electron doping induced by substitu-tion with Co, superconductivity completely vanishes at 

x ∼ 12 % [41, 47, 48], while hole doping by substitut-ing with V rapidly decreases Tc at a rate of 7 K per 1% V accompanied by formation of high magnetic moments [49]. External pressure also reduces Tc by approximately -1.4 K/GPa [50, 51]. LiFeAs exhibits facile cleavage, yielding surfaces with high purity and good properties that were widely ex-plored by angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) [47, 52–58] and scanning tunneling microscopy [43, 59]. The Fermi surface of LiFeAs consists of two hole-like pockets centered at the Γ point (0 0 l) in the Brillouin zone and of two electron-like pockets at the M points ( ± 12 0 l) or (0 ± 12 l) but there is sizable disper-sion vertical to the layers [58]. LiFeAs shows topologi-cal surface states and is therefore a candidate for topo-logical superconductivity [58, 60]. Early ARPES stud-ies on LiFeAs by Borisenko et al. [52] revealed only poor nesting conditions between the hole and electron pockets of the Fermi surface, which were confirmed by many following studies [47, 53–58]. Therefore, the stan-dard AFM-fluctuations-based s± model for the super-conducting pairing can be questioned for LiFeAs but a three-dimensional analysis proposed that the scattering processes between electron and hole pockets dominate the pairing also in this material [61]. Indeed, inelastic neutron scattering (INS) experiments find AFM fluctua-tions appearing at incommensurate propagation vectors 

qinc =(0.5 ±ξ,0.5 ∓ξ,l) close to the commensurate values, where AFM correlations emerge in the other FeAs ma-terials [62–65]. However, these fluctuations are much weaker than those in Co-doped BaFe 2As 2 with similar 

Tc and there is only a gradual uptake at 7 .5 meV ac-companied by an intensity decrease at low energies upon passing into the superconducting state [62, 63] in con-trast to the strong resonance excitations observed in 122 materials [22]. The absence of strong nesting conditions inspired the proposal of pairing through ferromagnetic fluctuations leading to a p-wave superconducting order parameter [66]. A non-vanishing Knight-shift in an NMR experi-ment [67] and quasi-particle interference (QPI) patterns [68] supported such a scenario, but a polarized neutron diffraction study of the spin susceptibility finds the un-ambiguous suppression of electron susceptibility expected for spin-singlet pairing [69]. The discussion about the su-perconducting pairing mechanism and symmetry is thus more controversial for LiFeAs than for the other families [70–73] and also theories based on phonon-assisted orbital fluctuations were applied for LiFeAs yielding the sign-preserving s++ superconducting order-parameter sym-metry [74, 75]. Two high-resolution ARPES experiments   

> FIG. 1. Crystal structure of LiFeAs with FeAs tetrahedron layers separated by planes of Li (in yellow) (a). The measure-ment of the magnetization at a magnetic field of 5 mT paral-lel to [110] on a part of a crystal with a SQUID magnetome-ter determines the superconducting transition temperature to
> Tc= 17.6(6) K (b). The magnetization data were taken after zero-field cooling. The inset shows the mounting of the large crystal for the INS experiments.

on LiFeAs revealed three energy scales of strong electron-bosonic-mode coupling that can tentatively be attributed to phonons [56, 76] rendering a quantitative study of the lattice dynamics in LiFeAs desirable. Due to the reports of insufficiently strong electron-phonon coupling in the FeAs-based superconductors [14, 15] their lattice dynamics attracted less attention and only selected aspects were studied mostly related with either the structural transitions or the nematicity [77– 85]. In contrast, the lattice dynamics of many cuprate families were studied in great detail revealing the full phonon dispersion separated according to the different irreducible representations for phonon propagation vec-tors along the main symmetry directions [86]. Such a complete and detailed picture has not been obtained for any of the FeAs-based superconductors. For LiFeAs some zone-center modes were studied by Raman scattering [87] and the temperature dependence of transversal acoustic modes close to the Brillouin zone center was investigated by INS [85]. In addition density functional theory (DFT) calculations of the phonon dispersion were reported by Jishi et al. [88] and Huang et al. [89] that, however, only poorly agree with each other. We performed comprehensive INS studies on the phonon dispersion of LiFeAs using thermal triple-axis spectrometers (TAS) and analyzed the data by lattice-dynamical calculations with a force-constant model. In addition, we applied DFT to calculate the phonon dis-persion. By successively refining the model and by com-paring the predicted phonon intensities with the INS measurements we identify the character in terms of the phonon polarization and obtain an almost complete de-scription of the phonon modes along the main-symmetry directions. Overall the experimental and theoretical DFT results agree well with each other suggesting that the main characteristics of the lattice dynamics are well cap-tured by the calculations. 3 

> II. EXPERIMENTAL

The single crystals used in this study were synthesized at IFW Dresden using the self-flux technique [90] and were already studied by INS experiments aiming at the magnetic excitations [62, 63]. Recent magnetization mea-surements on a SQUID magnetometer revealed the su-perconducting transition temperature of 17.6(6) K on a small part cut from a large crystal, see Fig. 1. Two large LiFeAs samples of 400 and 600 mg weight were oriented in the [110]/[001], [100]/[010] and [100]/[001] scattering ge-ometries to access the transverse and longitudinal modes along the three high-symmetry paths ∆ along [100], Σ along [110] and Λ along [001]. The alkali-earth metal Li is very reactive, and, when exposed to moisture or air, decomposes into Lithium ox-ide and Lithium nitride. Hence the samples were always kept and manipulated under an Argon atmosphere in the glove box. The samples were mounted in a tight Al can, which was inserted in an ILL orange-type liquid Helium cryostat or in a closed-cycle cooler for the INS experi-ments. A first set of INS experiment was performed on the thermal TAS 1T at the Laboratoire L´ eon Brillouin in Saclay (France). The instrument uses double-focusing monochromator and analyzer crystals of highly oriented pyrolytic graphite (HOPG) with the (002) reflection. A HOPG filter in the scattered beam suppressed higher-order contaminations and the crystal was cooled in a closed-cycle refrigerator. The sample was oriented in the [100]/[010] scattering plane and scans were performed with a fixed final neutron momentum of kf = 2.66 ˚ A−1.Further experiments were performed in two cycles at the IN8 TAS at the ILL in Grenoble (France) [91, 92]. IN8 is a high-flux thermal neutron TAS designed to in-vestigate a wide energy and momentum transfer range. We used a Si(111) monochromator and a HOPG (002) analyzer, both in double-focusing mode. A HOPG filter in front of the analyzer suppressed higher-order contam-inations. Scans were mostly performed with fixed final neutron momentum kf =2.66 ˚ A−1 and in special cases with kf = 3.84 ˚ A−1. All reciprocal-space vectors are given in reduced lattice units with respect to the tetragonal lattice of a = b = 3.765 ˚ A and c = 6.28 ˚ A. After mounting the sample in the cryostat, Bragg reflections were used to orient the sample and to set the goniometers and di-aphragms. Most INS experiments were performed at low temperature, T =1.6 K, because the phonon broadening is typically smaller and the two-phonon scattering is re-duced, which facilitates the study at high energies. Be-sides, low-energy acoustic phonons exhibit smaller scat-tering intensity at low temperature due to the Bose fac-tor, but these modes are not difficult to study. Typi-cal scans to determine the phonon energies are shown in Fig. 2 and 3 for acoustic and optical modes, respectively. On both 1T and on IN8, the data were normalized by a monitor counter posed between the monochromator and the sample. INS experiments can determine the phonon dispersion throughout the entire Brillouin zone but for complex ma-terials with a large number n of atoms in the primitive cell it is challenging to identify the character in terms of the phonon polarization for the individual modes. The interaction between the neutron and the ions is rather simple, described by the scattering length, and also the intensity of the coherent one-phonon scattering process can be easily calculated [93, 94]: 

I ∝ 1

ω



n(ω) + 12 ± 12

 " X

> d

bd

√md

e(−Wd+iQ.r d)(Q·ed)

#2

(1) where ω denotes the phonon angular frequency and 

n(ω) is the Bose factor; q is the phonon wave vector; 

Q = G+q is the scattering vector decomposed to a recip-rocal lattice vector G and the phonon propagation vector 

q in the first Brillouin zone. e−Wd is the Debye-Waller factor with atoms indexed by d, with mass md and scat-tering length bd. The 3 n-dimensional polarization vector 

e = ( e1, ..., en) containing the n polarization vectors of the individual atoms ed enters the intensity through the scalar product Q · ed, which indicates that intensity is maximal for polarization components parallel or antipar-allel to the scattering vector. The term in square brack-ets denotes the dynamical structure factor of the phonon mode at the specific scattering vector. The scattering intensity is proportional to ω−1[n(ω) + 12 ± 12 ], which im-plies that the lower energy modes yield stronger intensity (see Fig. 2). One must distinguish phonon creation and annihilation processes that refer to the + and − of the 

± sign, respectively. At low temperatures (¯ hω > k B T ), the probability of phonon creation remains always finite while phonon absorption becomes suppressed by the Bose statistics. Therefore, such measurements must be per-formed in the neutron-energy-loss mode yielding the fac-tor ( n(ω) + 1). Individual phonons can be determined as a peak in the energy spectrum with respect to Q values, thereby enabling one to map out the locus of a corre-sponding mode in the E = ¯ hω versus q plot. The dy-namical structure factor cannot easily be evaluated; just for acoustic phonons one immediately sees, that strong intensity requires the scattering vector to be parallel to the polarization vector and a large length Q of the scat-tering vector close to a strong Bragg reflection. With a lattice-dynamics model one can calculate the dynami-cal structure factors and by comparing measurements at various reciprocal lattice vectors G one can identify the polarization character of individual modes. In the ideal case, the instrument resolution implies widths perpendicular to the scan direction that corre-spond to only little small impact on the phonon disper-sion. This condition is reasonably well met for little dis-persing optical phonons measured in a constant-Q scan, so that determining the peak positions by fitting against the intensity profile yields the correct points on a a dis-persion area. However, for acoustic phonons with steep 4dispersion close to the Brillouin-zone center the resolu-tion must be taken into account as it will be discussed in detail in the Appendix.           

> FIG. 2. Measurements of acoustic ∆ 4modes performed at 1.6 K at the scattering vectors ( ξ0 4) on IN8 (a), and of Σ 4
> modes observed at ( ξ ξ 4) on IN8 (b). The mode intensity di-minishes with increasing ξdue to the factor of 1/ ωin Eq. (1). Data were normalized to a monitor counting of 50,000, which corresponds to approximately 70 seconds counting time. (c) INS constant-energy scans for the longitudinal ∆ 1modes per-formed at (0 2+ ξ0) on 1T; these data are normalized to a monitor counting of 30,000, which corresponds to about 35 seconds.
> III. CRYSTAL STRUCTURE

LiFeAs crystallizes in a tetragonal P 4/nmm structure, and there is no magnetic transition (see Table I and Fig. 1). The crystal structure was analyzed by X-ray diffraction experiments on a small (100x120x40 μm) crys-tal cut from the large single-crystalline ingots that was mounted in a 150 μm cryoloop. Cutting the material to yield a sample for X-ray single-crystal diffraction is del-icate, and a suitable crystal could only be obtained in numerous attempts. Measurements were performed on a Bruker D8 diffractometer equipped with micro-focus                                                    

> Temperature 300 K 220 K 200 K 90 K a (˚ A) 3.7756(1) 3.7735(1) 3.7722(1) 3.7703(1) c (˚ A) 6.3571(2) 6.3384(2) 6.3346(2) 6.3190(2)
> Robs /R all 4.34/5.21 6.15/6.46 5.94/6.34 4.44/4.85
> wR obs /wR all 7.01/7.03 7.55/7.55 7.67/7.68 6.89/6.90 GoF 4.42/3.98 5.25/4.90 5.07/4.65 4.72/4.40 Li 2c ( 14,14, z )0.648(4) 0.645(4) 0.653(4) 0.656(3) Li Uiso 0.023(4) 0.017(4) 0.017(4) 0.012(3) As 2c ( 14,14, z ) 0.2370(1) 0.2368(2) 0.2368(2) 0.2365(2) As U11 0.0092(3) 0.0059(3) 0.0080(3) 0.0058(3) As U33 0.0168(5) 0.0112(5) 0.0144(5) 0.0121(4) Fe 2a ( 34,14,0) Fe U11 0.0087(4) 0.0056(3) 0.0078(4) 0.0059(3) Fe U33 0.0147(7) 0.0100(6) 0.0132(7) 0.0112(6) TABLE I. Crystal structure of LiFeAs in space group
> P4/nmm determined from single-crystal X-ray diffraction ex-periments performed on a Bruker D8 diffractometer. Atomic displacement parameters Uare given in ˚ A2.

Mo source and with a photon area detector. The tem-perature was controlled with a nitrogen blower. At 90, 200, 220 and 300 K large data sets of Bragg reflection in-tensities were collected with 10615(15716), 9038(14055), 11591(16585) and 9723(17656) observed(observed and weak) reflections, respectively. These data were cor-rected for absorption and merged into sets of 224(258), 219(258), 226(258) and 210(259) independent reflections. In the calculated precession maps we could not detect any evidence for superstructure peaks breaking the P 4/nmm 

translation lattice. Li + is hardly visible in X-ray experi-ments due to its low number of electrons. With the 90 K data we verified the stoichiometry by refining the Li and As occupation numbers yielding 0.92(9) and 0.984(8), re-spectively. The deficiency of the Li site remains below its error and is not significant. Also at the other tempera-tures, the refinement of the occupation did not indicate any deviation nor improved the fit. In the following anal-yses ideal occupation was assumed. Refinements of an extinction model yielded significant correction only for the (0 0 1) reflection; this reflection was excluded from the final refinement without further extinction correction. Refinement of anisotropic atomic displacement parame-ters for As and Fe atoms improved the data description while for Li an isotropic value was assumed. The re-sults agree with previously published structural parame-ters [40, 69, 90]. Upon cooling from 300 to 90 K we find only a small reduction of the As z parameter and also the thermal expansion of the a lattice parameter is small, ∆a/a =0.0014. However the relative shrinking of the c

lattice constant is six times larger, ∆ c/c =0.006, which reflects the weak structural coupling between the layers. The atomic displacement parameters appear normal and shrink upon cooling. There is thus no indication for a structural phase transition in LiFeAs, while its crystal structure flattens upon cooling. 5 

> IV. LATTICE-DYNAMICS MODEL

LiFeAs has two formula units in the primitive cell and thus n = 6 atoms. Therefore, there are 18 phonon modes at each propagation vector unless some modes are de-generate. The main challenge in quantitatively analyz-ing the phonon dispersion of such a system relies in the proper identification of the neutron signals in terms of the phonon polarization vectors, which can be realized by Eq. (1). Only by properly choosing the Brillouin zones of the measurements and by comparing several measure-ments in different Brillouin zones with the calculations according to Eq. (1) one may obtain a reliable picture of the phonon dispersion. Most importantly, the symme-try of the system, which separates the phonon modes according to irreducible representations, simplifies the identification of the modes. The distinction of differ-ent representations is also important for visualizing the dispersion. Note, that branches belonging to different representations can cross, but that two branches of the same representation interact and thereby avoid the cross-ing [95]. The 18 phonon branches are characterized by their po-larization vectors, where symmetry restrictions cause de-generacy for the Λ path and at Brillouin zone bound-aries as well as at Γ. The P 4/nmm symmetry yields the irreducible representations for the Γ modes that are illustrated in Fig. 4: Γ : 2 A1g + 3 A2u + 1 B1g + 3 Eg + 3 Eu. (2) Here, A and B represent the non-degenerate sym-metric, g, or anti-symmetric, u, vibrations, respectively, while E represents the doubly degenerate modes. The A

modes denote vibrations along the c direction and have bond-stretching character with out-of-phase ( A1g for Li and As) and in-phase polarization ( A2u for Li, Fe and As). The B1g mode corresponds to the Fe vibration along the c direction and is called the buckling mode. 

Eg and Eu symbols refer to the symmetric (out of phase) or antisymmetric (in phase) modes of all atoms that are polarized parallel to the layers. The acoustic modes cor-respond to the u symmetries, because all atoms must move in phase. The polarization schemes are presented in Table II for the Γ modes and for the main symmetry directions, ∆, Σ and Λ. In our notation the irreducible representation with the index 1 contains the longitudi-nal mode and those with indices 3 or 4 contain each one transverse acoustic mode. The in-plane polarized trans-verse acoustic modes always correspond to the index 3. Note that the two sites for each ion type are related by the 

n glide-mirror symmetry element. In the even g modes these pairs possess opposite phases, while they are in-phase for the odd u modes. Table II also gives the com-patibility relations for the main symmetry directions. We used the program GEN AX [96] to model the lat-tice dynamics in LiFeAs. The harmonic approximation             

> FIG. 3. Measurements of optical modes with selected constant-Qscans for (a-b) q=( ξ0 0); (c-d) ( ξ ξ 0) and (e-f) (0 0 ξ). Data were normalized to a monitor counting of 50.000, which corresponds to approximately 80 to 90 seconds counting time.

reduces the lattice-dynamics problem to the diagonaliza-tion of a 3 n×3n matrix for each allowed value of the phonon propagation vector q [95]: ω2e = ¯De with e

the 3 n dimensional phonon polarization vector and ω the phonon frequency. The dynamical matrix ¯D is given by the sum over the force constants Φ α,β (0d, l′d′) that re-late a displacement of the atom d′ in the l′ unit cell in β

direction to a force on the atom d in the 0 unit cell in α

direction ( α,β = x, y, z ): ¯Dα,β (d, d ′) = 1(mdmd′ )1/2

X

> l′

Φα,β (0d, l′d′) exp ( iql ′).

(3) The force constants for a pair of atoms Φ α,β (0d, l′d′)form a 3 ×3 matrix that one needs to determine. In the case of the two-ion potential energy depending only on the length of the distance, φ(r), there are only two pa-rameters, F = φ′′ (r) and G = φ′(r)/r , determining the force-constant matrix for a pair, which sometimes are called longitudinal and transversal constants: Φα,β (0d, l′d′) = − rαrβ

r2 (F − G) − δαβ G, (4) where rα and rβ are the coefficients of the distance vector r between the two ions. In ionic compounds the force constants can be deduced from empirical potentials, which can simulate the long-ranging Coulomb potentials 6   

> FIG. 4. Phonon polarization patterns for all optical modes at the Γ point of the Brillouin zone. The arrows indicate the amplitudes of the oscillation that contain the mass factor of the individual ions (Li yellow, Fe green, As blue). The label in brackets indicate the ion with the strongest contribution to the mode, and the numbers give the mode energies determined by the INS studies.

either directly or by introducing mass-less electron shells [95]. Such models were successful to describe the lattice dynamics in superconducting cuprates [86] and Sr 2RuO 4

[97]. For the lattice dynamics of LiFeAs we directly re-fined 24 force constants to describe the interaction be-tween ions for distances up to 4.3 ˚ A. The first approach used the phonon frequencies determined in Raman ex-periments [87] and the acoustic modes obtained from our INS experiments. The characters of optical modes at high-symmetry paths were then identified by model calculations of the INS intensity following the symme-try analysis in Table II. With the GEN AX program we refined the force constants with modes that exhibit a strong and unique dynamical structure factor at the studied Q,E range. The experimental phonon disper-sion is compared in Fig. 5 with the DFT results. The maximum deviation obtained between the calculated and experimental energies amounts to ∼3 meV. The compari-son between experimental energies and the force-constant model calculations is given in the APPENDIX.  

> V. DFT CALCULATIONS

The lattice dynamics of LiFeAs were further investi-gated using first principles DFT based techniques to elu-cidate the character of the different branches. Phonon properties were calculated within the linear response or density-functional perturbation theory (DFPT) imple-mented in the mixed-basis pseudopotential method [98, 99]. The electron-ion interaction is described by norm-conserving pseudopotentials, which were constructed fol-lowing the description of Vanderbilt [100]. Semicore states Fe-3 s and Fe-3 p were included in the valence space. In the mixed-basis approach, valence states are expanded in a combination of plane waves and local functions at atomic sites, which allows an efficient description of more localized components of the valence states. Here, plane waves with a cut-off for the kinetic energy of 24 Ry and local functions of s, p, d type for Fe were employed. For the exchange-correlation functional the general-gradient approximation (GGA) in the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof form [101] was used. Brillouin zone integrations were performed with a 16x16x8 k-point grid combined with a Gaussian smearing of 0.1 eV. 7

Li1 Li2 Fe1 Fe2 As1 As2 

(0.25 0.25 0.6356) (0.75 0.75 0.3644) (0.75 0.25 0) (0.25 0.75 0) (0.25 0.25 0.2371) (0.75 0.75 0.7629) 2A 1g 00A 00-A 000 000 00B 00-B 3A 2u 00A 00A 00B 00B 00C 00C 1B 1g 000 000 00A 00-A 000 000 3·2E g A00 -A00 B00 -B00 C00 -C00 3·2E u A00 A00 B00 B00 C00 C00 6∆ 1 A0B A0-B C0D C0-D E0F E0-F 3∆ 2 0A0 0-A0 0B0 0-B0 0C0 0-C0 3∆ 3 0A0 0A0 0B0 0B0 0C0 0C0 6∆ 4 A0B -A0B C0D -C0D E0F -E0F 5Σ 1 AAB AA-B CC0 CC0 DDE DD-E 3Σ 2 A-A0 -AA0 BB0 -C-C0 DDE DD-E 4Σ 3 A-A0 A-A0 B-BC B-B-C D-D0 D-D0 6Σ 4 AAB -A-AB C-CD -CCD EEF -E-EF 5Λ 1 00A 00B 00C 00C 00D 00E 1Λ 2 000 000 00A 00-A 000 000 6·2Λ 3 A-B0 -CD0 E-F0 -GH0 I-J0 -KL0 [100] ∆1= 3E u + 2A 1g +B 1g ∆2= 3E g ∆3= 3E u ∆4= 3E g + 3A 2u

[110] Σ1= 3E u + 2A 1g Σ2= 3E g Σ3= 3E u + B 1g Σ4= 3E g + 3A 2u

[001] Λ1= 3A 2u + 2A 1g Λ2= B 1g Λ3= 3E u + 3E g

TABLE II. Upper part: Polarization schemes according to the P 4/nmm crystal structure of LiFeAs for all Γ modes and for the representations along the [100], [110], and [001] directions (labeled ∆, Σ, and Λ, respectively); the first line gives the positions of the six atoms forming a primitive unit, the following lines show the displacements of these atoms for the respective irreducible representation. A letter at the ith position of an atom, signifies that this atom is moving along the i direction, a second appearance of the same letter signifies that the second atom moves with the same amplitude (“-” denotes a phase shift) in the corresponding direction. Lower part: Compatibility relations of the irreducible representations are given for phonon wave vectors along the main-symmetry directions. 

For the phonon calculations, structural parameters af-ter Morozov et al. [90] were adopted. It is known from other iron-pnictide families, that for structural opti-mization with standard correlation functionals (LDA or GGA), the As-z parameter, which determines the dis-tance of the As atom to the Fe plane, deviates signif-icantly from the experimental value. This behavior is found for LiFeAs, too. Within GGA, the As-z value re-laxes to 0.2197, as compared to the experimental value of 0.2363. This corresponds to a rather large error of about 0.1 ˚ A in the As position. For the phonon calculations, we therefore used the experimental values also for the po-sitional parameters. The effects of structure relaxation on the phonon dispersion are discussed in the Appendix. To obtain phonon properties, dynamical matrices were calculated by DFPT on a 8x8x4 momentum grid, and then determined for arbitrary points in the Brillouin zone by standard Fourier-interpolation techniques, providing both phonon frequencies and eigenvectors. Fig. 5 com-pares the experimental results with the DFPT calcula-tions. The good agreement with most measured phonon branches suggests a high accuracy of the DFT model for the lattice dynamics of LiFeAs. The total and par-tial phonon density of states shown in Fig. 6 was ob-tained within the same model by sampling the tetragonal Brillouin zone on a 40x40x20 grid using the tetrahedron method. To assess the strength of the electron-phonon cou-pling, the DFPT approach was applied to calculate the electron-phonon coupling matrix elements on the same 8x8x4 phonon mesh. To achieve proper convergence, a denser k-point mesh of 32x32x16 was employed. Sum-ming the partial contribution to the electron-phonon cou-pling from each mode over the 18 phonon branches and averaging on the Brillouin zone yields the total electron-phonon coupling constant of 0.19, which agrees with [14] and indicates a very small electron-phonon coupling in LiFeAs. 

VI. PHONON DISPERSION IN LIFEAS AND ITS TEMPERATURE DEPENDENCE A. Comparison of the INS and DFT phonon dispersion 

Figure 2 illustrates how efficiently acoustic phonons can be studied even at low temperature due to their high signal strength stemming from the 1 

> ω

term in Eq. (1). Strong acoustic phonon signals appear at strong Bragg peaks G with Q = G + q determining the transversal or longitudinal polarization of the modes due to the fac-tor Q · ed in Eq. (1). To measure a particular optical phonon it is crucial to find a G reciprocal lattice vector, for which this mode obtains a strong dynamical struc-ture factor while all other modes with close-lying energies vanish. On a TAS instrument, the experiment on optical phonons must be guided by predictions from a lattice-8      

> FIG. 5. Phonon dispersion in LiFeAs. Symbols denote the energy values determined by INS and the black solid lines give the results of the DFT calculations. The dispersion is presented along the high symmetry directions ∆ along [ ξ0 0]; Σ along [ ξξ0] and Λ along [0 0 ξ] and the color indicates the symmetry of the Γ mode at which the branch starts: red-A1g; green-A2u;cyan-B1g; magenta-Eg; blue-Eu

dynamics model, that can be successively refined. Fig. 3 presents several measurements on various optical modes that yield single peaks and thus a clear identification of the character. Figure 5 shows the measured phonon dispersion com-pared to the DFT calculations. The data have been plot-ted with error bars for the respective mode at the q po-sitions with the maximum error being around 2.2 meV. Overall there is good agreement between the dispersion obtained in the INS experiments and the DFT calcu-lations. The deviation between the DFT model and the mode energies observed by INS was calculated in terms of relative deviations, with the maximum differ-ence amounting to 5.2% for the E g (As) mode at ∆ 4.A comparison of our INS data with the calculated dis-persion from Ref. [88, 89] shows significant differences. In Ref. [88], there is a pronounced instability in the longi-tudinal and transverse acoustic modes at the Z point, (0 0 0.5), where the phonon frequencies almost fall back to zero. This behavior is excluded by our INS data that does not indicate any zone-boundary instability and it is also not seen in the calculation in Ref. [89] nor in our DFT analysis. However, the latter calculation in Ref. [89] finds all phonon frequencies at energies below 38 meV in contradiction with our measurements and also in contra-diction with the Raman determination of the Ag mode energy [87], see below. Thus, only our DFT calculations yield satisfactory agreement. In centrosymmetric LiFeAs, zone-center phonons can be separated in even, g, and odd, u, modes that keep and break inversion symmetry, respectively, and that are in principle Raman and infrared active, but the metallic properties of LiFeAs exclude precise infrared studies on phonons. We find the two optical A2u modes at 40.9 meV and 35.3 meV that exhibit essential Li and Fe polariza-tion, respectively, compare Fig. 4. The two optical Eu

modes at 35.0 meV and 29.6 meV also exhibit mainly Li and Fe polarization, respectively. In the following we indicate the main ion contributing to the vibration by the label in brackets, see also Fig. 4. The u modes are Raman inactive and have not been reported previously, but for six of the g modes we may compare the INS and the Raman results. The A1g energies were determined in the INS experiments to 44.1 meV (Li) and 22.7 meV (As) while the Raman study observes these modes at 42.2 meV (Li) and 23.1 meV (As), respectively, yielding good agreement. Also the neutron result for the B1g en-ergy at 28.9 meV and the Raman result at 29.7 meV (Fe) agree well. The two higher Eg modes were determined at 38.1 meV (Li) and 31.9 meV (Fe) by INS compared to the Raman values of 38.5 and 36.1 meV. The Raman re-sult for the Eg (Fe) mode is clearly incompatible with our INS data questioning the proper interpretation of the very weak Raman signal, while the DFT calculation yields an energy close to the INS result. The Raman ex-periment also fails to observe the lowest Eg energy that our INS scans at Q=(1 2 0) unambiguously determine at 15.7 meV at low temperature. In order to discuss the detailed aspects of the phonon dispersion it is helpful to inspect the phonon density of 9states (PDOS) calculated by DFT, see Fig. 6. We show the total PDOS as well as the partial PDOSs for the three different atoms Li, Fe and As. The highest branches con-tain the A1g (Li) mode and are separated from the rest of the dispersion. As indicated in the PDOS in Fig. 6 and in the polarization pattern in Fig. 4 these modes correspond to almost pure Li vibrations perpendicular to the planes. These branches at 42 to 44 meV exhibit little dispersion resulting in a narrow band in the PDOS. For all lower branches there is no clear separation visible as gaps in the PDOS. As it is expected from the large mass differ-ences, further Li contributions are found in the high en-ergy mixed branches between 25 and 38 meV, while even for the acoustic branches the Li oscillation is rapidly sup-pressed with increasing energy. The decoupling of the Li dynamics also corresponds to the structural arrangement with Li ions intercalating the FeAs layers. In contrast the mass ratio between Fe and As results in a less pro-nounced separation of modes, also because Fe and As form strongly connected structural units. Nevertheless one recognizes the change of dominating As contribu-tions towards dominating Fe oscillations around 23 meV in the PDOS. The A1g (As) mode at 22.7 meV involves the vertical even oscillation of the As and thus the modulation of the thickness of the FeAs layer, which was found to be decisive for the superconducting Tc [102]. A similar mode exists also in cuprates and ruthenates and the branch starting from this mode in the vertical direction ends at a peculiar mode, where the thickness in neighboring layers alternates. This zone-boundary mode can couple to inter-layer charge transfer and it is rather unusual in these latter compounds [97]. However, LiFeAs does not show any indication for similar anomalous behavior. At the B1g (Fe) buckling mode at 28.9 meV ∆ 1 and Σ 3

branches begin that soften in the Brillouin zone. For the ∆ direction this effect even seems to cause interac-tion with the two lower branches resulting in a reduced frequency of the zone-boundary acoustic phonon. While this indicates some structural instability, the system is still far from such a structural phase transition. This as-pect is well described by the DFT calculations as well as by the force constant model. The Eg modes involve even antiphase vibrations paral-lel to the FeAs layers and the two modes at lower energies exhibit a mixed character with Fe and As displacements. The Σ 2 and Σ 4 branches starting at the Eg mode at 31.9 meV considerably soften towards the zone boundary yielding anticrossing behavior, see Fig. 5. Also this soft-ening is well reproduced by the DFT and by the lattice-dynamics calculations,see Fig. 5 and APPENDIX. Fur-thermore, it is not obvious to understand strong electron-phonon coupling for these modes. The u modes are infrared active and would imply a splitting between the longitudinal and transversal Γ modes in an insulator. In metallic LiFeAs the long-range Coulomb potentials are screened so that this splitting must vanish at Γ. However, the screening is less effective 

> FIG. 6. Phonon density of states in LiFeAs as calculated by DFPT. The black line gives the total density of states while red green and blue lines denote the partial density of states for Li, Fe and As, respectively.

at shorter distances corresponding to finite propagation vector, which results in an upwards dispersion of such polar-modes branches in simple metals [103]. The recov-ery of the longitudinal energy enhancement can indeed be seen for the ∆ 1 and Σ 1 branches starting at these 

Eu modes, which indicates that the screening is far from being perfect in LiFeAs. For these modes the agreement between experiment and DFT energies is worse compared to the overall agreement and can point to some special coupling. In particular the end modes of acoustic ∆ 1 and Σ1 branches exhibit energies considerably below the DFT calculations. Only for the ∆ 1 direction this behavior can be associated with the softening of the B1g branch. Two ARPES measurements deduced different charac-teristic energy ranges for electron boson coupling. Ko-rdyuk et al. [76] report 15, 30 and 44 meV and Li et al. [56] identify 20, 34, and 55 meV. The 55 meV can-not be attributed to one-phonon scattering, while 44 meV corresponds roughly to the A1g (Li) branch. In the en-ergy range 30 to 34 meV many modes exist rendering it difficult to attribute the ARPES effects to a single phonon pattern. However, 15 meV corresponds to the end points of acoustic ∆ 1 and Σ 1 branches that exhibit also some discrepancy with the DFT calculations. Refer-ence [76] elucidates the presence of van-Hove singular-ities enhancing the electronic density of states at the 

M=(0.5 0.5 0) point. Longitudinal phonon modes cou-ple to charge modulations and can thus exhibit strong electron-phonon coupling. For example the longitudinal bond-stretching modes in various perovskite compounds couple to charge-density modulations and typically ex-hibit an anomalous phonon dispersion [103–105].  

> B. Temperature dependence of selected modes

Raman experiments on LiFeAs report the temperature dependencies of five even zone-center modes [87]. Upon cooling from room temperature to 5 K, the A1g , B1g and 10        

> FIG. 7. Temperature dependent scans for the ∆ 1zone bound-ary mode at Q= (2.5 0 0) that connects with the B1gmode (a). The peak energies (b) and their corresponding FWHMs (c) are plotted as a function of temperature.
> FIG. 8. Temperature dependent scans for selected modes (a-h). δdenotes the relative peak shift for 1.6 K (blue) and 290 K (red) scans in percent with a negative value corresponding to low-temperature hardening of phonons.

the highest Eg modes exhibit a relative hardening by 2 to 3% and become much sharper at low temperature. Both effects can be attributed to the normal coupling of phonon energies to the thermal expansion and to reduced phonon-phonon scattering effects on the line-widths. The Raman signal interpreted as the middle Eg mode [87], which disagrees with the INS analysis as discussed above, shows much smaller hardening and is always sharper than the other modes. The Raman experiments do not find any anomalous temperature dependence and thus con-firm the absence of a structural phase transition [87]. We have studied the temperature dependencies of sev-eral selected phonon modes via constant-Q scans, see Fig.s 7, 8 9. First we searched for an impact of the superconducting transition on the energy or full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the ∆ 1 modes at ( ξ 0 4) with ξ = 0.2, 0.25 and 0.5 that yield strong INS signals, see Fig. 2. The data at 1.6 and 20 K coincide within the errors in spite of the good statistics. Also the A2u mode at 36 meV measured at (0 0 6), the lowest three ∆ 1 zone   

> FIG. 9. Temperature dependent scans for few selected modes (a-h). δdenotes the relative peak shift for the 1.6 K (blue) and 290 K (red) scans as in Fig. 8.

boundary modes measured at (2.5 0 0) and (2.5 0 2), the 38 meV ∆ 4 mode at (0.3 0 5) and the 36 meV Λ 3 mode at (3 0 1.5) do not exhibit any significant shift occurring at low temperature that would be induced by the opening of the superconducting gap in LiFeAs. However, we do observe significant changes when com-paring room-temperature and low-temperature data in agreement with the Raman studies [87]. The c lattice parameter considerably shrinks upon cooling while the in-plane thermal expansion is small resulting in a pro-nounced flattening of the crystal structure, see Table I. Fig. 7 shows the exemplary temperature dependence of the ∆ 1 zone boundary mode near 27 meV; the ∼3% hardening follows the thermal expansion and can be at-tributed to a normal Gr¨ uneisen parameter. In Fig. 8 we compare room and low-temperature scans obtained with the first set of experiments on IN8. We calculate the rel-ative change in the mode energy δ = E(290 K) −E(1 .6 K)  

> E(1 .6 K)

in %; a negative number indicates hardening upon cooling. Albeit the δ values vary, the absolute range of energy shifts stay within the expectation for an anharmonic ef-fect induced by thermal expansion whereas the variation of δ as such originates in the strong anisotropy of the lat-tice contraction. The lowest Eg (As) mode measured at (2 1 0) hardens by 6.5 %, see Fig. 9(h), which is remarkable but most likely still a purely structural effect. With the second set of experiments on IN8 we studied the temperature dependence of the Σ 1 modes close to the typical nesting vector (0.5 0.5 0) of FeAs-based materials, near which incommensurate magnetic excitations emerge in LiFeAs [62], see Fig. 9. Fig. 9 also presents data for the qinc position of the incommensurate magnetic exci-tations that is not lying on a high symmetry path. All these modes show significant hardening that is compa-rable to that of the other studied modes and the effects at the incommensurate propagation vector qinc are not enhanced. 11          

> FIG. 10. Constant-energy scans to investigate the in-plane polarized transversal acoustic modes of ∆ 3and Σ 3symmetry at scattering vectors (2 ξ0) (a-f) and at (2+ ξ2-ξ0) (g-l). Some extra contributions arise at low energy near the cen-ter because the finite resolution function also integrates other contributions. All low-temperature data were normalized to a monitor of 50.000 but the 293 K data were normalized to 10.000 (a-c,j-k), 15.000(d,e,j,k) and 20.000 (f,l).
> C. Absence of nematic instability

In many FeAs-based materials the nematic transition occurs and is associated with the ferroelastic symmetry reduction from tetragonal to orthorhombic [30]. In con-sequence the phase transition as well as nematic precur-sors in the high-temperature phase couple to the shear modulus C66 that softens at the transition. This elastic constant determines the slope of the transversal acoustic phonons of ∆ 3 and Σ 3 symmetry in our notation. Fol-lowing the slope of these branches, one can detect an impact of nematic fluctuations as a softening near the Brillouin zone center and even deduce the nematic cor-relation length [83, 84]. For LiFeAs only a single mode at 2 meV was studied but did not show any evidence for softening upon cooling which indicated the absence of nematic fluctuations in this material [85]. Figure 10 shows constant-energy scans along (2 ξ 0) and (2+ ξ 2-ξ 0). Extra intensity is observed at the cen-ter for the low-energy scans, which stems from the con-tribution of longitudinal modes due to the finite energy and momentum resolution of the IN8 instrument. To correct for this effect and for the shift of maxima due to the asymmetric weighting of the phonon scattering, one needs to convolute the scattering function with the in-    

> FIG. 11. Dispersion obtained from the constant-Escans in Fig. 10 using the focusing direction. The scans have been corrected for resolution effects taking the temperature into account GEN AX . The blue and red lines denote the linear fit to the datasets at 1.6 and 290 K, respectively. All energy shifts indicate hardening of phonons to about 4%

strument resolution function in order to simulate scans accordingly. As it is explained in more detail in the AP-PENDIX, the resolution corrections can be obtained with the lattice-dynamics model taking all relevant phonon modes into account. For each scan the correction fac-tor was determined with the GEN AX program and the data were corrected. The dispersion in Fig. 11 presents the resolution-corrected data that follow a linear disper-sion relation. The linear fits to the data immediately re-veal the normal hardening of the phonon group-velocity while nematic correlations should imply softening. In accordance with the previous analyses [85, 106] we may thus exclude the presence of significant nematic fluctu-ations in LiFeAs (assuming a similar coupling between electronic nematicity and the lattice as in the other FeAs families).  

> VII. CONCLUSION

The combination of INS experiments with force-constant lattice-dynamics model and DFT calculations yields the full phonon dispersion of the unconventional superconductor LiFeAs with phonon modes separated according to the irreducible representations along main symmetry directions. LiFeAs does not exhibit the struc-tural and magnetic transitions observed in many pure parent compounds of Fe-based superconductors but the layered character of the crystal structure is reflected in a strongly anisotropic thermal expansion. Overall we find good agreement between DFT calculations and the ex-perimental phonon dispersion, which indicates that the essential couplings are properly captured in the DFT. In particular we do not find evidence for strong phonon renormalization in the experimental data that could be expected for some particular strong electron-phonon cou-12 pling that is overlooked in the electronic structure model. Although some branches considerably soften in the Brillouin zone causing anticrossing behavior, the zone-boundary energies are above ∼5 meV for the Z point (0 0 0.5) and above 12 meV for X and M . The low Z mode energy is just another consequence of the layered struc-tural character. Note however, that the slopes of longi-tudinal acoustic branches are similar for in- and out-of-plane propagation vectors. The dispersion of branches starting at the infrared-active u modes does not exhibit a steep dispersion near the zone center which would in-dicate an ionic character with poorly screened Coulomb potentials. The in-plane polarized low-energy transver-sal acoustic phonons with in-plane propagation vectors exhibit normal behavior and thus confirm the absence of strong nematic fluctuations. We find in general a harden-ing of phonons upon cooling and a reduction of the line-width that is expected for the usual anharmonic relation between phonon frequencies and the unit-cell volume. But the effects strongly vary between different modes. This is attributed to the peculiar thermal expansion and the strongest observed hardening of the lowest Eg mode amounts to 6.5 %. At the superconducting transition we do not observe any significant change in the phonon en-ergies or line widths. Overall the phonon dispersion in LiFeAs appears to be rather normal without indication for strong electron-phonon coupling or for a structural instability.  

> VIII. APPENDIX

- Resolution correction for acooustic modes - The ob-served INS intensity along a scan path results from the folding of the scattering function S(Q, E) with the four-dimensional (4D) resolution function of the TAS. In most cases one may correctly determine the mode energy in a constant-Q scan or the propagation vector in a constant-

E scan by fitting a Gaussian distribution. However, at low energies (where q→0) the Bose and the 1 /ω terms in the dynamical structure factor result in a strong asym-metry of the scattering function (see Eq. (1)) so that the folded intensity distribution does not peak at the true phonon energy or phonon propagation vector. This resolution-induced shift can be estimated by simulating a phonon scan and fitting the calculated intensity dis-tribution with a Gaussian distribution. The difference between the phonon position of the model and the fitted maximum is the resolution induced shift that then can be used to correct the fit values with the experimental data. Of course the phonon dispersion and the simulated scattering strength of the model should be as close as possible to the true dispersion of the system. We used the GEN AX [96] and RESLIB [107] pro-gram packages to simulate the folding. RESLIB analyti-cally calculates the 4D resolution ellipsoid in momentum-energy space using Cooper-Nathans or Popovici ap-proximations [93, 107], and GEN AX uses the Cooper-        

> FIG. 12. Comparison of measured constant-energy scans across the low-energy transversal in-plane polarized acous-tic phonons compared to the simulation with the RESLIB
> and GEN AX packages. The 2.5 meV results in panel (a) clearly indicate an additional contribution in the scan center that stems from longitudinal modes that contribute due to the large resolution ellipsoid in Qspace. Here only the GEN AX
> package that folds the entire phonon dispersion can properly reproduce the data. The scan at higher energy shown in panel (b) suffers less from this calculation and can be correctly be simulated by both methods.

Nathans formalism with effective mosaic values and beam divergences to approximate the focusing. The resolution matrix M (a 4x4 matrix) describes the Gaussian broad-ening: 

R(∆ Qx, ∆Qy , ∆Qz , ∆E) ∝ exp 



− 12⃗v T M⃗v



, (5) where ⃗v = (∆ Q x, ∆Qy , ∆Qz , ∆E) is the distance vec-tor in the 4D space. This resolution function is convo-luted with the theoretical scattering function to simulate the observed scans. With the RESLIB package the scattering function arising from transversal phonons is simulated by a lin-ear dispersion E(q) combined with a one-phonon scat-tering strength that assumes a perfect acoustic polariza-tion and thus only incorporates the trivial Bose and the 1/ω terms by adapting the slope of the phonon branch. With the full lattice-dynamics calculations provided by the GEN AX program package one can calculate the complete scattering function at any q value. At high en-ergy both methods yield comparable results, but at low 13    

> FIG. 13. Phonon dispersion in LiFeAs. Symbols present the experimental energy values with the same color coding as in Fig. 5. Black solid lines and orange dashed lines denote the DFT calculation discussed in section V and VI and those with the optimized As-zposition; the magenta broken lines show the results of the force-constant model.

energy the contribution of longitudinal modes that are captured by the finite Q resolution yield additional scat-tering near the ξ=0 centers of the constant-E scans that only the full analysis can properly describe, see Fig. 12. - Comparison with force-constant model - In Fig. 13 we compare the experimental phonon dispersion with the re-sults of the refined force-constant model. With the lim-ited amount of 24 force constants the essential features of the dispersion, in particular the anticrossing behav-iors are well described. Therefore, also the identification of the individual modes through the dynamical structure factor obtained from the polarization vectors appears re-liable. - Dependence of DFT calculations on structure param-eters - It is well known that the As-z parameter, which determines the distance of As from the Fe plane, is an important structural parameter for the 1111 and 122 Fe-pnictide families, and has a large influence on the posi-tions of electronic bands near the Fermi energy. It has been noticed in early DFT studies, that the theoretically optimized As-z value deviates significantly from the ex-perimental one [108, 109]. Furthermore, an intriguing re-lationship between the As position and the ordered mag-netic moment of Fe was found, and the agreement with experiment improved when the magnetic order was taken into account [108, 110]. This peculiar magneto-structural coupling also manifests itself in lattice-dynamical proper-ties. In theoretical studies of BaFe 2As 2, certain phonons react sensitively on the As position and magnetic order, and better agreement with measured phonon energies is observed for magnetic calculations [77]. A similar trend was found for LaFeAsO [111]. An alternative explanation was suggested by previ-ous DFT+DMFT studies, which provide an enhanced correlation treatment. Here, an improved As position was found even without considering magnetic order [112]. This points to the possibility that the wrong prediction of the As position within standard DFT might be due to an insufficient treatment of correlation. For LiFeAs we do observe very similar trends. As dis-cussed in Sec. V and VI, the good agreement of the cal-culated phonon dispersion with measurement (see Fig. 5) is obtained for a lattice geometry, where the As-z param-eter is taken from experiment. Figure 13 compares this dispersion with a calculation, where the theoretically op-timized value is used instead. However, this calculation results in poor agreement. Significant discrepancies for optical branches in the middle part of the spectrum as well as softening of the highest branches highlight the sensitivity of the phonon spectrum on the As position. Because LiFeAs does not exhibit magnetic order, the dis-crepancy cannot simply be attributed to the neglect of magnetic order. Future work has to show, if the wrong DFT prediction for the As position can be reconciled by including local magnetic moments (paramagnetic state) or by an improved treatment of correlations. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

AT and MB acknowledge support by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foun-dation) through project number 461247437 BR 2211/3-1. SW acknowledges support by the DFG through project number 461247437 WU595/17-1. RH acknowledges support by the state of Baden-W¨ urttemberg through bwHPC. 

DATA AVAILABILITY 14 The data that support the findings of this article are openly available [113]. 

[1] Y. Kamihara, T. Watanabe, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Iron-Based Layered Superconductor La(O 1−xFx)FeAs (x = 0.05-0.12) with T c = 26 K, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 

130 , 3296 (2008). [2] H. Hosono, K. Tanabe, E. Takayama-Muromachi, H. Kageyama, S. Yamanaka, H. Kumakura, M. Nohara, H. Hiramatsu, and S. Fujitsu, Exploration of new super-conductors and functional materials, and fabrication of superconducting tapes and wires of iron pnictides, Sci-ence and Technology of Advanced Materials 16 , 033503 (2015). [3] Z.-A. Ren, G.-C. Che, X.-L. Dong, J. Yang, W. Lu, W. Yi, X.-L. Shen, Z.-C. Li, L.-L. Sun, F. Zhou, and Z.-X. Zhao, Superconductivity and phase diagram in iron-based arsenic-oxides ReFeAsO1-δ (Re = rare-earth metal) without fluorine doping, Europhysics Letters 83 ,17002 (2008). [4] M. Rotter, M. Tegel, and D. Johrendt, Superconduc-tivity at 38 K in the Iron Arsenide (Ba 1−xKx)Fe 2As 2,Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 , 107006 (2008). [5] S. Avci, O. Chmaissem, E. A. Goremychkin, S. Rosenkranz, J.-P. Castellan, D. Y. Chung, I. S. Todorov, J. A. Schlueter, H. Claus, M. G. Kanatzidis, A. Daoud-Aladine, D. Khalyavin, and R. Osborn, Magnetoelastic coupling in the phase diagram of Ba 1−xKxFe 2As 2 as seen via neutron diffraction, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 172503 (2011). [6] J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B. Lv, K. Sasmal, B. Lorenz, P. C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, LiFeAs: An intrin-sic FeAs-based superconductor with Tc = 18 K, Phys. Rev. B 78 , 060505 (2008). [7] S. Li, C. de la Cruz, Q. Huang, G. F. Chen, T.-L. Xia, J. L. Luo, N. L. Wang, and P. Dai, Structural and mag-netic phase transitions in Na 1−δ FeAs, Phys. Rev. B 80 ,020504 (2009). [8] F.-C. Hsu, J.-Y. Luo, K.-W. Yeh, T.-K. Chen, T.-W. Huang, P. M. Wu, Y.-C. Lee, Y.-L. Huang, Y.-Y. Chu, D.-C. Yan, and M.-K. Wu, Superconductivity in the PbO-type structure α-FeSe, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105 , 14262 (2008). [9] E. Pomjakushina, K. Conder, V. Pomjakushin, M. Ben-dele, and R. Khasanov, Synthesis, crystal structure, and chemical stability of the superconductor FeSe 1−x, Phys. Rev. B 80 , 024517 (2009). [10] S. Nandi, M. G. Kim, A. Kreyssig, R. M. Fernandes, D. K. Pratt, A. Thaler, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Can-field, J. Schmalian, R. J. McQueeney, and A. I. Gold-man, Anomalous Suppression of the Orthorhombic Lat-tice Distortion in Superconducting Ba(Fe 1−xCo x)2As 2

Single Crystals, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 , 057006 (2010). [11] S. Aswartham, M. Abdel-Hafiez, D. Bombor, M. Ku-mar, A. U. B. Wolter, C. Hess, D. V. Evtushinsky, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. A. Kordyuk, T. K. Kim, S. V. Borisenko, G. Behr, B. B¨ uchner, and S. Wurmehl, Hole doping in BaFe 2As 2: The case of Ba 1−xNa xFe 2As 2 single crystals, Phys. Rev. B 85 , 224520 (2012). [12] F. Rullier-Albenque, D. Colson, A. Forget, P. Thu´ ery, and S. Poissonnet, Hole and electron contributions to the transport properties of Ba(Fe 1−xRu x)2As 2 single crystals, Phys. Rev. B 81 , 224503 (2010). [13] S. K. Kim, M. S. Torikachvili, E. Colombier, A. Thaler, S. L. Bud’ko, and P. C. Canfield, Combined effects of pressure and Ru substitution on BaFe 2As 2, Phys. Rev. B 84 , 134525 (2011). [14] L. Boeri, O. Dolgov, and A. A. Golubov, Is LaFeAsO 1-x Fx an Electron-Phonon Superconductor?, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 , 026403 (2008). [15] K. Haule, J. H. Shim, and G. Kotliar, Correlated Elec-tronic Structure of LaO 1−xFxFeAs, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

100 , 226402 (2008). [16] P. M. Shirage, K. Kihou, K. Miyazawa, C.-H. Lee, H. Kito, H. Eisaki, T. Yanagisawa, Y. Tanaka, and A. Iyo, Inverse iron isotope effect on the transition temperature of the (Ba , K)fe 2as 2 superconductor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 103 , 257003 (2009). [17] I. I. Mazin, D. J. Singh, M. D. Johannes, and M. H. Du, Unconventional Superconductivity with a Sign Reversal in the Order Parameter of LaFeAsO 1−xFx, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 , 057003 (2008). [18] A. V. Chubukov, D. V. Efremov, and I. Eremin, Mag-netism, superconductivity, and pairing symmetry in iron-based superconductors, Phys. Rev. B 78 , 134512 (2008). [19] P. J. Hirschfeld, M. M. Korshunov, and I. I. Mazin, Gap symmetry and structure of Fe-based supersonductors, Rep. Prog. Phys. 74 , 124508 (2011). [20] D. J. Scalapino, A common thread: The pairing inter-action for unconventional superconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 , 1383 (2012). [21] P. J. Hirschfeld, Using gap symmetry and structure to reveal the pairing mechanism in Fe-based superconduc-tors, C. R. Phys. 17 , 197 (2016). [22] P. Dai, Antiferromagnetic order and spin dynamics in iron-based superconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. 87 , 855 (2015). [23] N. Qureshi, P. Steffens, S. Wurmehl, S. Aswartham, B. B¨ uchner, and M. Braden, Local magnetic anisotropy in BaFe 2As 2: A polarized inelastic neutron scattering study, Phys. Rev. B 86 , 060410 (2012). [24] C. Wang, R. Zhang, F. Wang, H. Luo, L. P. Regnault, P. Dai, and Y. Li, Longitudinal Spin Excitations and Magnetic Anisotropy in Antiferromagnetically Ordered BaFe 2As 2, Phys. Rev. X 3, 041036 (2013). [25] P. Steffens, C. H. Lee, N. Qureshi, K. Kihou, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, and M. Braden, Splitting of Resonance Excitations in Nearly Optimally Doped Ba(Fe 0.94 Co 0.06 )2As 2: An Inelastic Neutron Scattering Study with Polarization Analysis, Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 ,137001 (2013). [26] D. D. Scherer and B. M. Andersen, Spin-Orbit Coupling and Magnetic Anisotropy in Iron-Based Superconduc-tors, Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 037205 (2018). [27] D. D. Scherer and B. M. Andersen, Effects of spin-orbit coupling on the neutron spin resonance in iron-based superconductors, arXiv , 1906.08566 (2019). [28] D. D. Scherer and B. M. Andersen, Effects of spin-orbit 15 

coupling on spin-fluctuation induced pairing in iron-based superconductors, arXiv , 1909.01313 (2019). [29] J. Wang, Y. Wu, X. Zhou, Y. Li, B. Teng, P. Dong, J. He, Y. Zhang, Y. Ding, and J. Li, Progress of ne-matic superconductivity in iron-based superconductors, Advances in Physics: X 6, 1878931 (2021). [30] A. E. B¨ ohmer, J.-H. Chu, S. Lederer, and M. Yi, Ne-maticity and nematic fluctuations in iron-based super-conductors, Nature Physics 18 , 1412 (2022). [31] R. M. Fernandes, A. I. Coldea, H. Ding, I. R. Fisher, P. J. Hirschfeld, and G. Kotliar, Iron pnictides and chalcogenides: a new paradigm for superconductivity, Nature 601 , 35 (2022). [32] K. Haule and G. Kotliar, Coherence incoherence crossover in the normal state of iron oxypnictides and importance of Hund’s rule coupling, New Journal of Physics 11 , 025021 (2009). [33] R. Juza and K. Langer, Tern¨ are Phosphide und Ar-senide des Lithiums mit Eisen, Kobalt oder Chrom im Cu 2Sb-Typ, Zeitschrift f¨ ur anorganische und allgemeine Chemie 361 , 58 (1968). [34] X. Wang, Q. Liu, Y. Lv, W. Gao, L. Yang, R. Yu, F. Li, and C. Jin, The superconductivity at 18 K in LiFeAs system, Solid State Commun. 148 , 538 (2008). [35] J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B. Lv, K. Sasmal, B. Lorenz, P. C. W. Chu, and A. M. Guloy, LiFeAs: An intrinsic FeAs-based superconductor with Tc=18K, Phys. Rev. B 

78 , 060505 (2008). [36] O. Heyer, T. Lorenz, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Ev-tushinsky, S. V. Borisenko, I. Morozov, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, C. Hess, and B. B¨ uchner, Resistivity and Hall effect of LiFeAs: Evidence for electron-electron scattering, Phys. Rev. B 84 , 064512 (2011). [37] G. Li, R. R. Urbano, P. Goswami, C. Tarantini, B. Lv, P. Kuhns, A. P. Reyes, C. W. Chu, and L. Balicas, Anomalous hysteresis as evidence for a magnetic-field-induced chiral superconducting state in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 87 , 024512 (2013). [38] T. Hanaguri, K. Kitagawa, K. Matsubayashi, Y. Mazaki, Y. Uwatoko, and H. Takagi, Scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy of vortices in lifeas, Phys. Rev. B 85 , 214505 (2012). [39] M. J. Pitcher, T. Lancaster, J. D. Wright, I. Franke, A. J. Steele, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, W. T. Thomas, D. R. Parker, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Com-positional Control of the Superconducting Properties of LiFeAs, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 132 , 10467 (2010). [40] M. J. Pitcher, D. R. Parker, P. Adamson, S. J. C. Herkelrath, A. T. Boothroyd, R. M. Ibberson, M. Brunelli, and S. J. Clarke, Structure and supercon-ductivity of LiFeAs, Chem. Commun. 45 , 5918 (2008). [41] S. Aswartham, G. Behr, L. Harnagea, D. Bombor, A. Bachmann, I. V. Morozov, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. A. Kordyuk, T. K. Kim, D. V. Evtushinsky, S. V. Borisenko, A. U. B. Wolter, C. Hess, S. Wurmehl, and B. B¨ uchner, Suppressed superconductivity in charge-doped Li(Fe 1−xCo x)As single crystals, Phys. Rev. B 84 ,054534 (2011). [42] U. Stockert, M. Abdel-Hafiez, D. V. Evtushinsky, V. B. Zabolotnyy, A. U. B. Wolter, S. Wurmehl, I. Moro-zov, R. Klingeler, S. V. Borisenko, and B. B¨ uchner, Specific heat and angle-resolved photoemission spec-troscopy study of the superconducting gaps in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 224512 (2011). [43] S. Chi, S. Grothe, R. Liang, P. Dosanjh, W. N. Hardy, S. A. Burke, D. A. Bonn, and Y. Pennec, Scanning Tun-neling Spectroscopy of Superconducting LiFeAs Single Crystals: Evidence for Two Nodeless Energy Gaps and Coupling to a Bosonic Mode, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 ,087002 (2012). [44] S. Khim, B. Lee, J. W. Kim, E. S. Choi, G. R. Stewart, and K. H. Kim, Pauli-limiting effects in the upper crit-ical fields of a clean LiFeAs single crystal, Phys. Rev. B 

84 , 104502 (2011). [45] D. R. Parker, M. J. P. Smith, T. Lancaster, A. J. Steele, I. Franke, P. J. Baker, F. L. Pratt, M. J. Pitcher, S. J. Blundell, and S. J. Clarke, Control of the Competi-tion between a Magnetic Phase and a Superconduct-ing Phase in Cobalt-Doped and Nickel-Doped NaFeAs Using Electron Count, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 , 057007 (2010). [46] A. F. Wang, X. G. Luo, Y. J. Yan, J. J. Ying, Z. J. Xiang, G. J. Ye, P. Cheng, Z. Y. Li, W. J. Hu, and X. H. Chen, Phase diagram and calorimetric properties of NaFe 1−xCo xAs, Phys. Rev. B 85 , 224521 (2012). [47] Z. R. Ye, Y. Zhang, F. Chen, M. Xu, J. Jiang, X. H. Niu, C. H. P. Wen, L. Y. Xing, X. C. Wang, C. Q. Jin, B. P. Xie, and D. L. Feng, Extraordinary Doping Effects on Quasiparticle Scattering and Bandwidth in Iron-Based Superconductors, Phys. Rev. X 4, 031041 (2014). [48] Y. M. Dai, H. Miao, L. Y. Xing, X. C. Wang, P. S. Wang, H. Xiao, T. Qian, P. Richard, X. G. Qiu, W. Yu, C. Q. Jin, Z. Wang, P. D. Johnson, C. C. Homes, and H. Ding, Spin-Fluctuation-Induced Non-Fermi-Liquid Behavior with Suppressed Superconductivity in LiFe 1−xCo xAs, Phys. Rev. X 5, 031035 (2015). [49] L. Y. Xing, X. Shi, P. Richard, X. C. Wang, Q. Q. Liu, B. Q. Lv, J.-Z. Ma, B. B. Fu, L.-Y. Kong, H. Miao, T. Qian, T. K. Kim, M. Hoesch, H. Ding, and C. Q. Jin, Observation of non-Fermi liquid behavior in hole-doped LiFe 1−xVxAs, Phys. Rev. B 94 , 094524 (2016). [50] S. J. Zhang, X. C. Wang, R. Sammynaiken, J. S. Tse, L. X. Yang, Z. Li, Q. Q. Liu, S. Desgreniers, Y. Yao, H. Z. Liu, and C. Q. Jin, Effect of pressure on the iron arsenide superconductor Li xFeAs (x = 0.8, 1.0, 1.1), Phys. Rev. B 80 , 014506 (2009). [51] M. Gooch, B. Lv, J. H. Tapp, Z. Tang, B. Lorenz, A. M. Guloy, and P. C. W. Chu, Pressure shift of the super-conducting Tc of LiFeAs, EPL (Europhysics Letters) 85 ,27005 (2009). [52] S. V. Borisenko, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushinsky, T. K. Kim, I. V. Morozov, A. N. Yaresko, A. A. Ko-rdyuk, G. Behr, A. Vasiliev, R. Follath, and B. B¨ uchner, Superconductivity without Nesting in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 , 067002 (2010). [53] K. Umezawa, Y. Li, H. Miao, K. Nakayama, Z.-H. Liu, P. Richard, T. Sato, J. B. He, D.-M. Wang, G. F. Chen, H. Ding, T. Takahashi, and S.-C. Wang, Unconven-tional Anisotropic s-Wave Superconducting Gaps of the LiFeAs Iron-Pnictide Superconductor, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

108 , 037002 (2012). [54] H. Miao, L.-M. Wang, P. Richard, S.-F. Wu, J. Ma, T. Qian, L.-Y. Xing, X.-C. Wang, C.-Q. Jin, C.-P. Chou, Z. Wang, W. Ku, and H. Ding, Coexistence of orbital degeneracy lifting and superconductivity in iron-based superconductors, Phys. Rev. B 89 , 220503 (2014). [55] H. Miao, T. Qian, X. Shi, P. Richard, T. K. Kim, M. Hoesch, L. Y. Xing, X.-C. Wang, C.-Q. Jin, J.-P. 16 

Hu, and H. Ding, Observation of strong electron pair-ing on bands without Fermi surfaces in LiFe 1-x Co xAs, Nat. Commun. 6, 6056 (2015). [56] C. Li, G. Dai, Y. Cai, Y. Wang, X. Wang, Q. Gao, G. Liu, Y. Huang, Q. Wang, F. Zhang, S. Zhang, F. Yang, Z. Wang, Q. Peng, Z. Xu, C. Jin, L. Zhao, and X. J. Zhou, Evidence for bosonic mode coupling in electron dynamics of LiFeAs superconductor, Chinese Physics B 29 , 107402 (2020). [57] Y. S. Kushnirenko, D. V. Evtushinsky, T. K. Kim, I. Morozov, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, S. Aswartham, B. B¨ uchner, A. V. Chubukov, and S. V. Borisenko, Ne-matic superconductivity in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 102 ,184502 (2020). [58] R. P. Day, M. X. Na, M. Zingl, B. Zwartsenberg, M. Michiardi, G. Levy, M. Schneider, D. Wong, P. Dosanjh, T. M. Pedersen, S. Gorovikov, S. Chi, R. Liang, W. N. Hardy, D. A. Bonn, S. Zhdanovich, I. S. Elfimov, and A. Damascelli, Three-dimensional elec-tronic structure of LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 105 , 155142 (2022). [59] C. Hess, S. Sykora, T. H¨ anke, R. Schlegel, D. Baumann, V. B. Zabolotnyy, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, J. van den Brink, and B. B¨ uchner, Interband Quasiparticle Scat-tering in Superconducting LiFeAs Reconciles Photoe-mission and Tunneling Measurements, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

110 , 017006 (2013). [60] P. Zhang, Z. Wang, X. Wu, K. Yaji, Y. Ishida, Y. Kohama, G. Dai, Y. Sun, C. Bareille, K. Kuroda, T. Kondo, K. Okazaki, K. Kindo, X. Wang, C. Jin, J. Hu, R. Thomale, K. Sumida, S. Wu, K. Miyamoto, T. Okuda, H. Ding, G. D. Gu, T. Tamegai, T. Kawakami, M. Sato, and S. Shin, Multiple topologi-cal states in iron-based superconductors, Nature Physics 

15 , 41 (2019). [61] Y. Wang, A. Kreisel, V. B. Zabolotnyy, S. V. Borisenko, B. B¨ uchner, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino, Superconducting gap in LiFeAs from three-dimensional spin-fluctuation pairing calculations, Phys. Rev. B 88 , 174516 (2013). [62] N. Qureshi, P. Steffens, Y. Drees, A. C. Komarek, D. Lamago, Y. Sidis, L. Harnagea, H.-J. Grafe, S. Wurmehl, B. B¨ uchner, and M. Braden, Inelastic Neutron-Scattering Measurements of Incommensurate Magnetic Excitations on Superconducting LiFeAs Sin-gle Crystals, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 , 117001 (2012). [63] N. Qureshi, P. Steffens, D. Lamago, Y. Sidis, O. Sobolev, R. A. Ewings, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, B. B¨ uchner, and M. Braden, Fine structure of the in-commensurate antiferromagnetic fluctuations in single-crystalline LiFeAs studied by inelastic neutron scatter-ing, Phys. Rev. B 90 , 144503 (2014). [64] J. Knolle, V. B. Zabolotnyy, I. Eremin, S. V. Borisenko, N. Qureshi, M. Braden, D. V. Evtushinsky, T. K. Kim, A. A. Kordyuk, S. Sykora, C. Hess, I. V. Morozov, S. Wurmehl, R. Moessner, and B. B¨ uchner, Incommen-surate magnetic fluctuations and Fermi surface topology in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 86 , 174519 (2012). [65] M. Wang, M. Wang, H. Miao, S. V. Carr, D. L. Abernathy, M. B. Stone, X. C. Wang, L. Xing, C. Q. Jin, X. Zhang, J. Hu, T. Xiang, H. Ding, and P. Dai, Effect of Li-deficiency impurities on the electron-overdoped LiFeAs superconductor, Phys. Rev. B 86 ,144511 (2012). [66] P. M. R. Brydon, M. Daghofer, C. Timm, and J. van den Brink, Theory of magnetism and triplet superconductiv-ity in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 060501 (2011). [67] S. H. Baek, H. J. Grafe, F. Hammerath, M. Fuchs, C. Rudisch, L. Harnagea, S. Aswartham, S. Wurmehl, J. van den Brink, and B. B¨ uchner, 75As NMR-NQR study in superconducting LiFeAs, The European Phys-ical Journal B 85 , 159 (2012). [68] T. H¨ anke, S. Sykora, R. Schlegel, D. Baumann, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, M. Daghofer, B. B¨ uchner, J. van den Brink, and C. Hess, Probing the Unconven-tional Superconducting State of LiFeAs by Quasiparti-cle Interference, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 , 127001 (2012). [69] J. Brand, A. Stunault, S. Wurmehl, L. Harnagea, B. B¨ uchner, M. Meven, and M. Braden, Spin suscep-tibility in superconducting LiFeAs studied by polarized neutron diffraction, Phys. Rev. B 89 , 045141 (2014). [70] Y. Wang, A. Kreisel, V. B. Zabolotnyy, S. V. Borisenko, B. B¨ uchner, T. A. Maier, P. J. Hirschfeld, and D. J. Scalapino, Superconducting gap in LiFeAs from three-dimensional spin-fluctuation pairing calculations, Phys. Rev. B 88 , 174516 (2013). [71] F. Ahn, I. Eremin, J. Knolle, V. B. Zabolotnyy, S. V. Borisenko, B. B¨ uchner, and A. V. Chubukov, Supercon-ductivity from repulsion in LiFeAs: Novel s-wave sym-metry and potential time-reversal symmetry breaking, Phys. Rev. B 89 , 144513 (2014). [72] R. Nourafkan, G. Kotliar, and A.-M. S. Tremblay, Correlation-Enhanced Odd-Parity Interorbital Singlet Pairing in the Iron-Pnictide Superconductor LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. Lett. 117 , 137001 (2016). [73] M. P. Allan, K. Lee, A. W. Rost, M. H. Fischer, F. Massee, K. Kihou, C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, T.-M. Chuang, J. C. Davis, and E.-A. Kim, Identifying the ’fin-gerprint’ of antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations in iron pnictide superconductors, Nat. Phys. 11 , 177 (2015). [74] T. Saito, S. Onari, Y. Yamakawa, H. Kontani, S. V. Borisenko, and V. B. Zabolotnyy, Reproduction of ex-perimental gap structure in LiFeAs based on orbital-spin fluctuation theory: s++ -wave, s±-wave, and hole-

s±-wave states, Phys. Rev. B 90 , 035104 (2014). [75] T. Saito, Y. Yamakawa, S. Onari, and H. Kontani, Re-visiting orbital-fluctuation-mediated superconductivity in LiFeAs: Nontrivial spin-orbit interaction effects on the band structure and superconducting gap function, Phys. Rev. B 92 , 134522 (2015). [76] A. A. Kordyuk, V. B. Zabolotnyy, D. V. Evtushin-sky, T. K. Kim, I. V. Morozov, M. L. Kuli´ c, R. Fol-lath, G. Behr, B. B¨ uchner, and S. V. Borisenko, Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy of superconducting LiFeAs: Evidence for strong electron-phonon coupling, Phys. Rev. B 83 , 134513 (2011). [77] D. Reznik, K. Lokshin, D. C. Mitchell, D. Parshall, W. Dmowski, D. Lamago, R. Heid, K.-P. Bohnen, A. S. Sefat, M. A. McGuire, B. C. Sales, D. G. Mandrus, A. Subedi, D. J. Singh, A. Alatas, M. H. Upton, A. H. Said, A. Cunsolo, Y. Shvyd’ko, and T. Egami, Phonons in doped and undoped BaFe 2As 2 investigated by inelas-tic x-ray scattering, Phys. Rev. B 80 , 214534 (2009). [78] M. Zbiri, H. Schober, M. R. Johnson, S. Rols, R. Mittal, Y. Su, M. Rotter, and D. Johrendt, Ab initio lattice dynamics simulations and inelastic neutron scattering spectra for studying phonons in BaFe 2As 2: Effect of structural phase transition, structural relaxation, and 17 

magnetic ordering, Phys. Rev. B 79 , 064511 (2009). [79] C.-H. Lee, K. Kihou, K. Horigane, S. Tsutsui, T. Fukuda, H. Eisaki, H. Y. Akira IyoAkira Iyo, A. Q. R. Baron, M. Braden, and K. Yamada, Effect of K Doping on Phonons in Ba 1-x KxFe 2As 2, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 79 ,014714 (2010). [80] T. Fukuda, A. Q. R. Baron, H. Nakamura, S. Shamoto, M. Ishikado, M. Machida, H. Uchiyama, A. Iyo, H. Kito, J. Mizuki, M. Arai, and H. Eisaki, Soft and isotropic phonons in PrFeAsO 1−y , Phys. Rev. B 84 , 064504 (2011). [81] D. Parshall, R. Heid, J. L. Niedziela, T. Wolf, M. B. Stone, D. L. Abernathy, and D. Reznik, Phonon spec-trum of SrFe 2As 2 determined using multizone phonon refinement, Phys. Rev. B 89 , 064310 (2014). [82] D. Parshall, L. Pintschovius, J. L. Niedziela, J.-P. Castellan, D. Lamago, R. Mittal, T. Wolf, and D. Reznik, Close correlation between magnetic proper-ties and the soft phonon mode of the structural tran-sition in BaFe 2As 2 and SrFe 2As 2, Phys. Rev. B 91 ,134426 (2015). [83] F. Weber, D. Parshall, L. Pintschovius, J.-P. Castellan, M. Kauth, M. Merz, T. Wolf, M. Sch¨ utt, J. Schmalian, R. M. Fernandes, and D. Reznik, Soft phonons reveal the nematic correlation length in Ba(Fe 0.94 Co 0.06 )2As 2,Phys. Rev. B 98 , 014516 (2018). [84] A. M. Merritt, F. Weber, J.-P. Castellan, T. Wolf, D. Ishikawa, A. H. Said, A. Alatas, R. M. Fernandes, A. Q. R. Baron, and D. Reznik, Nematic Correlation Length in Iron-Based Superconductors Probed by In-elastic X-Ray Scattering, Phys. Rev. Lett. 124 , 157001 (2020). [85] A. Merritt, J. Rodriguez-Rivera, Y. Li, W. Wang, C. Zhang, P. Dai, and D. Reznik, Absence of Long-Wavelength Nematic Fluctuations in LiFeAs, Journal of Superconductivity and Novel Magnetism 29 , 3049 (2016). [86] S. L. Chaplot, W. Reichardt, L. Pintschovius, and N. Pyka, Common interatomic potential model for the lattice dynamics of several cuprates, Phys. Rev. B 52 ,7230 (1995). [87] Y. J. Um, J. T. Park, B. H. Min, Y. J. Song, Y. S. Kwon, B. Keimer, and M. Le Tacon, Raman scattering study of the lattice dynamics of superconducting LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 85 , 012501 (2012). [88] R. A. Jishi and H. M. Alyahyaei, Electronic and Lat-tice Dynamical Properties of the Iron-Based Supercon-ductors LiFeAs and NaFeAs, Advances in Condensed Matter Physics 2010 , 804343 (2010). [89] G. Q. Huang, Z. W. Xing, and D. Y. Xing, Spin-phonon coupling and effect of pressure in the superconductor LiFeAs: Lattice dynamics from first-principles calcula-tions, Phys. Rev. B 82 , 014511 (2010). [90] I. Morozov, A. Boltalin, O. Volkova, A. Vasiliev, O. Kataeva, U. Stockert, M. Abdel-Hafiez, D. Bom-bor, A. Bachmann, L. Harnagea, M. Fuchs, H.-J. Grafe, G. Behr, R. Klingeler, S. Borisenko, C. Hess, S. Wurmehl, and B. B¨ uchner, Single Crystal Growth and Characterization of Superconducting LiFeAs, Crys-tal Growth & Design , Crystal Growth & Design 10 , 4428 (2010). [91] A. Tewari, M. Braden, and A. Piovano, (2023), Phonon dispersion and electron phonon coupling in LiFeAs. In-stitut Laue-Langevin (ILL) doi:10.5291/ILL-DATA.4-02-629. [92] A. Tewari, M. Braden, A. Piovano, N. Qureshi, and F. Wirth, (2024), Phonon dispersion and electron phonon coupling in LiFeAs. Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL) doi:10.5291/ILL-DATA.4-02-643. [93] G. Shirane, S. M. Shapiro, and J. M. Tranquada, Neu-tron Scattering with a Triple-Axis Spectrometer (Cam-bridge University Press , 2004) isbn: 0-511-03732-5. [94] G. L. Squires, Introduction to the Theory of Ther-mal Neutron Scattering (Dover Publications, Inc., 1996) isbn: 0-486-69447-X. [95] P. Br¨ uesch, Phonons: Theory and experiments I: Lat-tice dynamics and Models of interatomic forces , Vol. 34 (Springer Science & Business Media, 2012). [96] W. Reichardt, GENAX-PROGRAM-PACKAGE, un-published (1998). [97] M. Braden, W. Reichardt, Y. Sidis, Z. Mao, and Y. Maeno, Lattice dynamics and electron-phonon cou-pling in Sr 2RuO 4: Inelastic neutron scattering and shell-model calculations, Phys. Rev. B 76 , 014505 (2007). [98] B. Meyer, C. Els¨ asser, and M. F¨ ahnle, F ORT RAN 90 proram for Mixed-Bais Pseudopotenital Calculations for Crystals; Max-Planck-Institut f¨ ur Metallforschungs, Stuttgart (unpublished). [99] R. Heid and K.-P. Bohnen, Linear response in a density-functional mixed-basis approach, Phys. Rev. B 60 ,R3709 (1999). [100] D. Vanderbilt, Optimally smooth norm-conserving pseudopotentials, Phys. Rev. B 32 , 8412 (1985). [101] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Generalized gradient approximation made simple, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

77 , 3865 (1996). [102] C.-H. Lee, A. Iyo, H. Eisaki, H. Kito, M. T. Fernandez-Diaz, T. Ito, K. Kihou, H. Matsuhata, M. Braden, and K. Yamada, Effect of Structural Parameters on Super-conductivity in Fluorine-Free LnFeAsO 1-y (Ln = La, Nd), J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 77 , 083704 (2008). [103] M. Braden, L. Pintschovius, T. Uefuji, and K. Ya-mada, Dispersion of the high-energy phonon modes in Nd 1.85 Ce 0.15 CuO 4, Phys. Rev. B 72 , 184517 (2005). [104] W. Weber, Electron-phonon interaction in the new su-perconductors La 2−x(Ba,Sr) xCuO 4, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

58 , 1371 (1987). [105] M. Braden, W. Reichardt, S. Shiryaev, and S. Barilo, Giant phonon anomalies in the bond-stretching modes in doped BaBiO 3: comparison to cuprates manganites and nickelates, Physica C: Superconductivity 378-381 ,89 (2002). [106] M. Wissmann, F. Caglieris, X. Hong, S. Aswartham, A. Vorobyova, I. Morozov, B. B¨ uchner, and C. Hess, Absence of nematic instability in LiFeAs, Phys. Rev. B 

106 , 054508 (2022). [107] A. Zheludev, Manual: ResLib 3.4 , Neutron Scattering Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-6393, USA (2007). [108] Z. P. Yin, S. Leb` egue, M. J. Han, B. P. Neal, S. Y. Savrasov, and W. E. Pickett, Electron-hole symme-try and magnetic coupling in antiferromagnetic lafeaso, Phys. Rev. Lett. 101 , 047001 (2008). [109] I. I. Mazin, M. D. Johannes, L. Boeri, K. Koepernik, and D. J. Singh, Problems with reconciling density func-tional theory calculations with experiment in ferropnic-tides, Phys. Rev. B 78 , 085104 (2008). 18 

[110] T. Yildirim, Strong coupling of the fe-spin state and the as-as hybridization in iron-pnictide superconductors from first-principle calculations, Phys. Rev. Lett. 102 ,037003 (2009). [111] S. E. Hahn, G. S. Tucker, J.-Q. Yan, A. H. Said, B. M. Leu, R. W. McCallum, E. E. Alp, T. A. Lograsso, R. J. McQueeney, and B. N. Harmon, Magnetism-dependent phonon anomaly in lafeaso observed via inelastic x-ray scattering, Phys. Rev. B 87 , 104518 (2013). [112] M. Aichhorn, L. Pourovskii, and A. Georges, Impor-tance of electronic correlations for structural and mag-netic properties of the iron pnictide superconductor lafeaso, Phys. Rev. B 84 , 054529 (2011). [113] A. Tewari, N. Qureshi, R. Heid, A. Piovano, Y. Sidis, L. Harnagea, S. Wurmehl, B. B¨ uchner, and M. Braden, (2026), Zenodo.