Title: Kardar-Parisi-Zhang physics in optically-confined continuous polariton condensates

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.15095v1

Published Time: Fri, 17 Apr 2026 01:07:05 GMT

Number of Pages: 6

Markdown Content:
# Kardar-Parisi-Zhang physics in optically-confined continuous polariton condensates 

Mikhail Misko 1,•, Natalia Starkova 1,•, and Pavlos G. Lagoudakis 1∗

> 1

Hybrid Photonics Laboratory, Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, Territory of Innovation Center Skolkovo, Bolshoy Boulevard 30, building 1, 121205 Moscow, Russia 

(Dated: April 17, 2026) Kardar–Parisi–Zhang (KPZ) scaling has been observed in discrete polariton lattices, enabled by engineered band structures that stabilize the condensate. Whether this universality extends to intrinsically continuous systems with natural noise regularization remains an open question. We propose and numerically demonstrate KPZ scaling in a continuous quasi-one-dimensional polariton condensate stabilized by optical confinement in the transversal direction. Large-scale simulations of the stochastic Gross–Pitaevskii equation, with experimentally relevant parameters, reveal temporal and spatial scaling exponents of the two-point phase correlation function βC ≈ 0.30(5) and αC ≈

0.46(8), and Tracy-Widom one-point phase fluctuation statistics, yielding robust KPZ dynamics intrinsic to the continuous polariton fluid. 

Many complex stochastic systems display universal large-scale behavior characterized by only a few scaling exponents that are independent of the microscopic in-teraction details and are defined only by the system’s symmetries and dimensionality. A central example is the Kardar–Parisi–Zhang (KPZ) universality class of grow-ing interfaces, whose coarse-grained description is given by the KPZ equation for a fluctuating height field [1]. Despite its apparent simplicity, the KPZ equation is a singular stochastic partial differential equation, it lacks the continuous limit as the discretization step tends to zero. Its analytical solution and numerical integration are highly non-trivial, requiring renormalization tech-niques [2] and careful discretization schemes [3], respec-tively. Moreover, the asymptotic nature of KPZ physics demands for large effective size of the system, which can roughly be defined as the ratio between the system size and noise correlation length. This motivates the search for physical platforms that naturally regularize KPZ dy-namics by providing the smallest possible UV noise cut-off, and allow direct access to universal exponents, corre-lation functions, and fluctuation statistics, thereby pro-viding analog simulators of non-linear, non-equilibrium universality classes. Exciton–polariton condensates in semiconductor mi-crocavities are particularly attractive in this con-text. They are driven–dissipative quantum fluids of light–matter with strong interactions, controllable pump-ing and loss, and direct optical access to both amplitude and phase of the order parameter [4]. A wide range of non-equilibrium phenomena have been realised with po-laritons including condensation [5, 6], superfluidity [7], vortex formation [8, 9], turbulence [10, 11] and topologi-cal phase transitions[12]. Recent theoretical efforts inves-tigated polariton realizations of KPZ universality under resonant and non-resonant pumping in 1D and 2D po-lariton condensates [13–21].   

> ∗Correspondence address: p.lagoudakis@skol.tech
> •M.M. and N.S. contributed equally to this work

In the pioneering work of Fontaine et al. [22], KPZ exponents and Tracy–Widom statistics were reported in a one-dimensional Lieb lattice of quantum-well micropil-lars, where band-structure engineering enables condensa-tion into an effective negative-mass state and suppresses modulational instabilities[23]. More recently, Widmann 

et al. demonstrated KPZ scaling in a two-dimensional micropillar array with tailored dispersion [24]. In both cases, however, the explicitly discretized lattice geometry and engineered band structure are integral to stabiliz-ing the condensate and suppressing vortices. This leaves open a fundamental question: can 1D KPZ universality emerge in a continuous polariton condensate in a planar microcavity, without etched lattices or negative-mass en-gineering? In planar microcavities, under non-resonant pumping, realizing such a continuous condensate that exhibits KPZ dynamics is challenging. The condensate is sustained by a reservoir of incoherent excitons, which both feeds and repels the polaritons [4]. When the reservoir strongly overlaps the condensate, the associated gain tends to amplify density modulations instead of smoothing them [25], leading to self-focusing and modulational instabili-ties rather than a stable extended fluid. At the level of the effective phase dynamics, the reservoir-induced con-tribution drives the phase diffusion coefficient, ν negative for realistic parameters, so that phase gradients grow in-stead of smoothing. This makes it difficult to obtain a long-lived, spatially extended condensate with positive phase diffusion, a prerequisite for KPZ scaling, while pre-serving a continuous geometry. In this Letter, we show that KPZ scaling can neverthe-less arise in a spatially continuous, quasi-one-dimensional polariton condensate in a planar microcavity, without any etched structures or band-engineering of the disper-sion. The key idea is to implement a purely optical, re-configurable confinement geometry presented in Fig. 1: two parallel, elongated non-resonant pumps create a pair of exciton reservoirs (depicted on the bottom colourmap layer) that repel the condensate and generate a standing-wave polariton mode (presented on top colourmap layer) whose intensity maximum is localized in the reservoir-

> arXiv:2604.15095v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 16 Apr 2026

2free region between them. This configuration confines the condensate to a quasi-1D stripe that extends over hundreds of microns, while strongly reducing its overlap with the exciton reservoirs. As a result, the central fringe of the condensate experiences a positive and sizable phase diffusion coefficient ν as shown on the bottom plane of Fig.1 even for modest high-momentum losses, and re-mains stable over long times. We show that along the unconfined direction the phase field exhibits all hallmark signatures of the 1D KPZ universality class. The one-point phase fluctuations follow Tracy–Widom statistics of the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble [26], consistent with effectively flat initial conditions. The spatio-temporal phase correlation function obeys the Family–Vicsek scal-ing form [27] with exponents β ≃ 0.30 and α ≃ 0.46, close to the exact 1D KPZ values, and collapse onto the universal KPZ scaling function [28]. Together, these re-sults demonstrate that a simple, purely optical confine-ment scheme in a planar microcavity can realize KPZ universality in a continuous driven–dissipative quantum fluid. The programmable character of the pump profile turns this minimal setup into a reconfigurable analog sim-ulator of non-linear, non-equilibrium universality classes, bridging previous lattice-based realizations with contin-uous quantum fluids of light. 

FIG. 1. Optically confined polariton condensate formed by two pump stripes. A planar microcavity is nonresonantly pumped in two elongated regions (gray dashed outlines in-dicate the pump FWHM), creating exciton reservoirs (bot-tom layer, color map) that feed the lower-polariton branch (LPB). The repulsive reservoir potential confines the conden-sate to an interference fringe between the stripes with minimal spatial overlap with the reservoirs, yielding a positive effec-tive phase-diffusion coefficient ν along the unconfined axis x

(white curve). The polariton density cross section is indicated by the green dashed line. 

We utilize the effective mean-field model for the de-scription of polariton condensates, the Gross-Pitaevskii equation [4], modified to account for gain and dissipa-tion. The reservoir-induced stochasticity in the mean field is described by adding the Langevin white noise term, ξ : ⟨ξ∗(r′, t ′)ξ(r, t )⟩ = 2 ξ20 δ(r − r′)δ(t − t′).                          

> iℏ∂tψ(r, t ) =
> 
> −ℏ2∇2
> 2m+ℏgpol |ψ(r, t )|2+ℏg na(r, t ) + ni(r, t )
> ψ(r, t )+ +iℏ
> 2 [Rn a(r, t )−γ(k)] ψ(r, t ) + iℏξ(r, t ),
> ∂tna(r, t ) = −(γex,a +R|ψ(r, t )|2)na(r, t ) + W n i(r, t ),
> ∂tni(r, t ) = −(γex,i +W)ni(r, t ) + P(r),

(1) where ψ(r, t ) is the polariton wave function, na(r, t ) and 

ni(r, t ) are the densities of active and inactive exciton resevoirs; P (r) is the incoherent exciton pump. m is the polariton mass, γ(k), γex,a and γex,i are the po-lariton loss rate and the exciton loss rates for active and inactive reservoirs, with γ(k) ≫ γex,a/i . We as-sume a quadratic dependence of the polariton loss on the wavevector, γ(k) = γ0 + 12 γ2|k|2, which ensures kinetic-energy dissipation. R is the scattering rate from bottleneck excitons into the polariton condensate, W

is the conversion rate from inactive to active excitons. Interactions are described by gpol and g, representing polariton–polariton and exciton–polariton interactions, respectively. Exact parameter values used in the sim-ulations are listed in Supplementary Information (SI) I. Next we assume a homogeneous in the unconfined di-rection stationary solution to the above equation and per-form the expansion around it [13]. Under the assumption that fluctuations of the polariton density are stationary and homogeneous, we arrive at the KPZ equation for the phase of the polariton condensate (see SI II for full derivation): 

∂tθ(x, t ) = ν ∂ 2

> x

θ(x, t )+ λ

2

∂xθ(x, t )2 +√2D η (x, t ). (2) Here η(x, t ) is a Gaussian white noise with zero mean and unit variance, ν is the effective diffusion coefficient, λ is nonlinear coupling, and D is the noise amplitude. The phase diffusion and nonlinear coefficients are defined by the microscopic GPE parameters as follows: 

ν = ℏ

mR 

"

gpol 

γex,a 

γ0

P

 1 + γex,i 

> W

 Pth 

− g

#

+ γ2

4 ,λ = − ℏ

m + γ2

R

"

gpol 

γex,a 

γ0

P

 1 + γex,i 

> W

 Pth 

− g

#

,

(3) where Pth = γ0γex,a /R is the condensation threshold. When the condensate strongly overlaps the reservoir, the repulsive condensate-reservoir interactions g dominates over the polariton–reservoir interaction gpol driving ν

negative. In this regime, density and phase modulations are exponentially amplified, leading to modulational in-stabilities, filamentation, and rapid vortex proliferation 3rather than a stable extended fluid [22]. In the regions where the polariton fluid is only fed by the in-plane influx of polaritons, however, the reservoir is absent, leading to 

g effectively equal to zero that leads to positive ν, see Fig. 1. The exact details of the proposed configuration together with the stability analysis of the system are pro-vided in SI III. To assess whether the system belongs to the KPZ uni-versality class, we perform the simulations of the full continuous 2D stochastic Gross-Pitaevskii equation and obtain the statistics for the polariton phase field θ(x, t ). We use several diagnostics that probe both one-point and two-point statistics of the phase. A first global observable is the interface roughness, defined as the variance of the phase across the condensate at a given time. For conden-sate of size L it is expected to grow as t2β at early times and to saturate as L2α at late times, with a crossover time scaling as tsat ∼ Lz . Here α and β are the spatial rough-ness and temporal growth exponents, respectively, and 

z is the dynamic exponent. For one-dimensional KPZ, their values are: 2 α = 1, 2 β = 2 /3, and z = α/β = 3 /2[1]. Extensive numerical studies have provided estimates in two dimensions [29, 30]. Although the roughness of the one-point phase-field is not approachable experimen-tally, here we have extracted the unwrapped phase of the condensate along the unconfined axis and estimated the corresponding critical exponents for sufficiently large lengths, L, for KPZ scaling to emerge. A detailed anal-ysis of the phase roughness in our system is presented in SI Sec. IV, wherein for L ∈ [175 , 700] μm we obtain 2αR ≈ 0.90 and 2βR ≈ 0.67. A more refined hallmark of 1D KPZ universality with flat initial conditions is provided by the asymmetric one-point statistics of the re-scaled phase fluctuations. We consider the fluctuations δθ (t0) = θ(t0) − ⟨ θ(t0)⟩ at a fixed reference time t0 and construct the rescaled vari-able χ = δθ (t0)/t 1/30 . KPZ theory predicts that, for flat initial conditions, the probability distribution P(χ)converges at long times to the Tracy–Widom distribu-tion associated with the Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble (TW-GOE) [31–33]. In Fig. 2a we plot P (χ) for several times t0 and find that all curves collapse onto a single, time-independent distribution that is well fitted by the TW-GOE form. This is consistent with the effectively flat phase profile of the noiseless steady state, which sets the initial condition for the KPZ dynamics. In Fig. 2b we show the variance of δθ (t0) as a function of t0 in a double-logarithmic scale and extract a growth exponent 2βv ≃ 0.69, in good agreement with the theoretical KPZ value 2 β = 2 /3. Beyond one-point statistics, KPZ universality also con-strains the full spatio-temporal correlations of the phase field through the Family–Vicsek scaling hypothesis. We characterize these correlations via the two-point phase correlation function 

C(∆ x, ∆t) = ⟨θ(x0 + ∆ x, t 0 + ∆ t)θ(x0, t 0)⟩− −⟨ θ(x0 + ∆ x, t 0 + ∆ t)⟩⟨ θ(x0, t 0)⟩. (4)            

> FIG. 2. Phase-fluctuation statistics in the optically con-fined condensate. (a) Probability density of rescaled phase fluctuations χ=δθ/ (t0)1/3evaluated at several initial times
> t0, showing collapse onto a single curve. The black dashed line is the Tracy–Widom Gaussian Orthogonal Ensemble dis-tribution (TW GOE), consistent with flat initial conditions. (b) Variance Var( δθ ) as a function of t0; a power-law fit on a double-logarithmic plot yields a growth exponent 2 βV≃0.69 (KPZ: 2 β= 2 /3).

where the averages are taken over stochastic realizations and positions x0 along the channel. For a 1D KPZ inter-face one expects the scaling form 

C(∆ x, ∆t) = C0(∆ t)2β F



y0

∆x

(∆ t)1/z 



, (5) where F is a universal scaling function that depends only on the universality subclass, while C0 and y0 are non-universal normalization constants. The asymptotic be-haviour of F encodes the power-law scalings C(0 , ∆t) ∼

∆t2βc and C(∆ x, 0) ∼ ∆x2αc , so that both the temporal growth exponent βC and the spatial roughness exponent 

αC can be extracted from appropriate cuts of C(∆ x, ∆t). In Fig. 3a, we show the purely temporal correlations 

C(∆ x = 0 , ∆t) for several initial times t0, plotted on a double-logarithmic scale. After the system reaches satu-ration, we observe a clear power-law regime from which we extract a temporal exponent 2 βC ≃ 0.60 at the lat-est accessible t0, approaching the theoretical KPZ value 2βC = 2 /3. The corresponding estimates 2 βC (t0) as a function of t0 are summarized in Fig 3b, illustrating the 4

FIG. 3. Two-point phase correlations and KPZ scaling. (a) Purely temporal correlations C(∆ x=0 , ∆t) of the phase, evaluated for different initial times t0 as a function of time lag ∆ t (double-logarithmic scale); the slope yields the growth exponent. (b) Exponent 2 βC extracted from (a) versus t0, approaching the KPZ value 2 β = 2 /3 (dashed line). (c) Purely spatial correlations 

C(∆ x, ∆t=0) versus separation ∆ x for different t0; the slope yields the roughness exponent. (d) Exponent 2 αC extracted from (c) versus t0, approaching the KPZ value 2 α = 1; deviations at late times are limited by finite system size and periodic boundary conditions. (e) Normalized map of C(∆ x, ∆t); the bright region indicates the scaling window. (f) Data collapse of the rescaled correlation function onto the universal KPZ scaling form F(ξ) with ξ = ∆ x/ ∆t2/3; the green line shows the theoretical F(ξ) and the red lines delimit the fitted scaling regime. 

gradual convergence towards the universal exponent as the KPZ scaling regime is reached. Figures 3c and 3d show the purely spatial correlations C(∆ x, ∆t = 0) and the extracted roughness exponent 2 αC , respectively. The build-up of spatial coherence with time leads to an ex-ponent 2 αC ≃ 0.92 at the latest t0, close to the 1D KPZ value 2 α = 1, with the small deviation attributable to finite-size effects, finite cutoff time and the use of pe-riodic boundary conditions. (See SI Sec. V for a more detailed discussion on contribution of these factors and 5comparison with other results.) Finally, the full consistency of our phase dynamics with the KPZ universality class is demonstrated by the collapse of the rescaled two-point correlation function onto the known universal scaling function F(ξ) of 1D KPZ with flat initial conditions [28]. In Fig. 3e we plot 

C(∆ x, ∆t) as a colour map, where the bright region in-dicates the domain in (∆ x, ∆t) space consistent with the universal scaling. In Fig. 3f we rescale C(∆ x, ∆t) ac-cording to Eq. 5 and plot it as a function of the scal-ing variable ξ = ∆ x/ ∆t2/3. The numerical data col-lapse onto the analytic KPZ scaling function F(ξ) (blue line) within one standard deviation (red lines), except for two well-understood regions: an early-time crossover near (∆ x, ∆t) = (0 , 0) and a large-∆ x regime where the finite system size and periodic boundary conditions arti-ficially enhance correlations between opposite points on the ring. We note that the critical exponents extracted from the roughness behavior (2 αR ≈ 0.90 , 2βR ≈ 0.67), the one-point phase variance (2 βV ≈ 0.69) and the two-point correlation function (2 αC ≈ 0.92 , 2βC ≈ 0.60) are in good agreement with expected KPZ critical exponents for 1D system. It is also noticeable that the growth exponent obtained from the correlation function is smaller than those extracted through the other methods, due to the finiteness of the cutoff time, available in our simulations. This is also in agreement with previous observations [13]. In conclusion, we have proposed and numerically ana-lyzed a configuration that realizes Kardar–Parisi–Zhang dynamics in the phase of a spatially continuous polari-ton condensate of reduced effective dimensionality. Be-yond providing a concrete route to observe KPZ scaling, the scheme illustrates the broader potential of optically imprinted polariton condensates as analog simulators of non-equilibrium universality classes. In particular, the full reconfigurability of our approach allows future stud-ies of different geometric subclasses of KPZ by shaping the profile of the steady state solution [18]. Alternatively, a similar experiment in curved geometry, when the reser-voir is shaped as a ring with a spot in the center, as in [34], can provide crucial insights into the influence of boundary conditions on KPZ physics. Furthermore, the tunability of the effective diffusion coefficient may provide access to a new inviscid Burgers fixed point of the KPZ equation that has recently been predicted by [35, 36]. Our approach demonstrates how one of the 2 dimensions of a conventional planar microcavity can be utilized to engineer the stability of the condensate, while keeping the other dimension pure and unconfined for the observation of large scale condensed matter phenomena. 

[1] Mehran Kardar, Giorgio Parisi, and Yi-Cheng Zhang. Dynamic scaling of growing interfaces. Physical Review Letters , 56(9):889, 1986. [2] Nicolas Dupuis, L´ eonie Canet, Astrid Eichhorn, Wal-ter Metzner, Jan M Pawlowski, Matthieu Tissier, and Nicol´ as Wschebor. The nonperturbative functional renormalization group and its applications. Physics Re-ports , 910:1–114, 2021. [3] Martin Hairer. Solving the kpz equation. Annals of math-ematics , pages 559–664, 2013. [4] Iacopo Carusotto and Cristiano Ciuti. Quantum fluids of light. Reviews of Modern Physics , 85(1):299–366, 2013. [5] A Imamog, RJ Ram, S Pau, Y Yamamoto, et al. Nonequilibrium condensates and lasers without inver-sion: Exciton-polariton lasers. Physical Review A,53(6):4250, 1996. [6] Jacek Kasprzak, Murielle Richard, S Kundermann, A Baas, P Jeambrun, Jonathan Mark James Keeling, FM Marchetti, MH Szyma´ nska, R Andr´ e, JL a Staehli, et al. Bose–einstein condensation of exciton polaritons. 

Nature , 443(7110):409–414, 2006. [7] Alberto Amo, J´ erˆ ome Lefr` ere, Simon Pigeon, Claire Adrados, Cristiano Ciuti, Iacopo Carusotto, Romuald Houdr´ e, Elisabeth Giacobino, and Alberto Bramati. Su-perfluidity of polaritons in semiconductor microcavities. 

Nature Physics , 5(11):805–810, 2009. [8] Konstantinos G Lagoudakis, Michiel Wouters, Maxime Richard, Augustin Baas, Iacopo Carusotto, Regis Andr´ e, Le Si Dang, and B Deveaud-Pl´ edran. Quantized vor-tices in an exciton–polariton condensate. Nature physics ,4(9):706–710, 2008. [9] D Sanvitto, Francesca Mar´ ıa Marchetti, MH Szyma´ nska, Guilherme Tosi, M Baudisch, Fabrice P Laussy, DN Krizhanovskii, MS Skolnick, Lorenzo Marrucci, A Lemaitre, et al. Persistent currents and quantized vor-tices in a polariton superfluid. Nature Physics , 6(7):527– 533, 2010. [10] SV Koniakhin, O Bleu, G Malpuech, and DD Solnyshkov. 2d quantum turbulence in a polariton quantum fluid. 

Chaos, Solitons & Fractals , 132:109574, 2020. [11] R Ferrini and SV Koniakhin. Driven-dissipative turbu-lence in exciton-polariton quantum fluids. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.09275 , 2025. [12] Davide Caputo, Dario Ballarini, Galbadrakh Dagvadorj, Carlos S´ anchez Mu˜ noz, Milena De Giorgi, Lorenzo Do-minici, Kayte West, Loren Pfeiffer, Giuseppe Gigli, Fab-rice Laussy, Marzena Szymanska, and D. Sanvitto. Topo-logical order and thermal equilibrium in polariton con-densates. Nature Materials , 17, 02 2018. [13] Liang He, Lukas M Sieberer, Ehud Altman, and Se-bastian Diehl. Scaling properties of one-dimensional driven-dissipative condensates. Physical Review B,92(15):155307, 2015. [14] Ehud Altman, Lukas M Sieberer, Leiming Chen, Sebas-tian Diehl, and John Toner. Two-dimensional superfluid-ity of exciton polaritons requires strong anisotropy. Phys-ical Review X , 5(1):011017, 2015. [15] A Zamora, LM Sieberer, K Dunnett, S Diehl, and MH Szyma´ nska. Tuning across universalities with a driven open condensate. Physical Review X , 7(4):041006, 2017. [16] A Zamora, N Lad, and MH Szymanska. Vortex dynam-6

ics in a compact kardar-parisi-zhang system. Physical Review Letters , 125(26):265701, 2020. [17] Davide Squizzato, L´ eonie Canet, and Anna Minguzzi. Kardar-parisi-zhang universality in the phase distribu-tions of one-dimensional exciton-polaritons. Phys. Rev. B, 97:195453, May 2018. [18] Konstantinos Deligiannis, Davide Squizzato, A. Min-guzzi, and L´ eonie Canet. Accessing kardar-parisi-zhang universality sub-classes with exciton polaritons. EPL (Europhysics Letters) , 132:67004, 03 2021. [19] Konstantinos Deligiannis, Quentin Fontaine, Davide Squizzato, Maxime Richard, Sylvain Ravets, Jacqueline Bloch, A. Minguzzi, and L´ eonie Canet. Kardar-parisi-zhang universality in discrete two-dimensional driven-dissipative exciton polariton condensates. Physical Re-view Research , 4, 12 2022. [20] Francesco Vercesi, Quentin Fontaine, Sylvain Ravets, Jacqueline Bloch, Maxime Richard, L´ eonie Canet, and Anna Minguzzi. Phase diagram of one-dimensional driven-dissipative exciton-polariton condensates. Phys-ical Review Research , 5(4):043062, 2023. [21] F´ elix Helluin, Daniela Pinto-Dias, Quentin Fontaine, Sylvain Ravets, Jacqueline Bloch, Anna Minguzzi, and L´ eonie Canet. Phase diagram and universal scal-ing regimes of two-dimensional exciton-polariton bose-einstein condensates. Physical Review Research , 7:33103, 07 2025. [22] Quentin Fontaine, Davide Squizzato, Florent Baboux, Ivan Amelio, Aristide Lemaˆ ıtre, Martina Morassi, Is-abelle Sagnes, Luc Le Gratiet, Abdelmounaim Harouri, Michiel Wouters, et al. Kardar–parisi–zhang universal-ity in a one-dimensional polariton condensate. Nature ,608(7924):687–691, 2022. [23] Florent Baboux, Daniele De Bernardis, Valentin Gob-lot, VN Gladilin, Carmen Gomez, Elisabeth Galopin, L Le Gratiet, A Lemaˆ ıtre, I Sagnes, I Carusotto, et al. Unstable and stable regimes of polariton condensation. 

Optica , 5(10):1163–1170, 2018. [24] Simon Widmann, Siddhartha Dam, Johannes D¨ ureth, Christian G. Mayer, Romain Daviet, Carl Philipp Zelle, David Laibacher, Monika Emmerling, Martin Kamp, Se-bastian Diehl, Simon Betzold, Sebastian Klembt, and Sven H¨ ofling. Observation of kardar-parisi-zhang univer-sal scaling in two dimensions, 2025. [25] E Estrecho, Tingge Gao, Nataliya Bobrovska, Michael D Fraser, M Steger, L Pfeiffer, K West, TCH Liew, Michal Matuszewski, David W Snoke, et al. Single-shot conden-sation of exciton polaritons and the hole burning effect. 

Nature communications , 9(1):2944, 2018. [26] Craig A Tracy and Harold Widom. On orthogonal and symplectic matrix ensembles. Communications in Math-ematical Physics , 177(3):727–754, 1996. [27] Tam´ as Vicsek and Fereydoon Family. Dynamic scal-ing for aggregation of clusters. Physical Review Letters ,52(19):1669, 1984. [28] Michael Pr¨ ahofer and Herbert Spohn. Exact scaling func-tions for one-dimensional stationary kpz growth. Journal of statistical physics , 115(1):255–279, 2004. [29] Keye Moser, J´ anos Kert´ esz, and Dietrich E Wolf. Nu-merical solution of the kardar-parisi-zhang equation in one, two and three dimensions. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications , 178(2):215–226, 1991. [30] M´ arcio S Gomes-Filho, Andr´ e LA Penna, and Fer-nando A Oliveira. The kardar-parisi-zhang exponents for the 2+ 1 dimensions. Results in Physics , 26:104435, 2021. [31] Tomohiro Sasamoto. Spatial correlations of the 1d kpz surface on a flat substrate. Journal of Physics A: Math-ematical and General , 38(33):L549, 2005. [32] Patrik L Ferrari and Herbert Spohn. A determinantal formula for the goe tracy–widom distribution. Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General , 38(33):L557, 2005. [33] Pasquale Calabrese and Pierre Le Doussal. Exact solu-tion for the kardar-parisi-zhang equation with flat initial conditions. Physical review letters , 106(25):250603, 2011. [34] Alexander Dreismann, Peter Cristofolini, Ryan Balili, Gabriel Christmann, Florian Pinsker, Natasha G Berloff, Zacharias Hatzopoulos, Pavlos G Savvidis, and Jeremy J Baumberg. Coupled counterrotating polariton conden-sates in optically defined annular potentials. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences , 111(24):8770–8775, 2014. [35] Liubov Gosteva, Malo Tarpin, Nicol´ as Wschebor, and L´ eonie Canet. Inviscid fixed point of the multidimen-sional burgers–kardar-parisi-zhang equation. Physical Review E , 110(5):054118, 2024. [36] Liubov Gosteva, Nicol´ as Wschebor, and L´ eonie Canet. Unveiling the different scaling regimes of the one-dimensional kardar–parisi–zhang–burgers equation us-ing the functional renormalisation group. Jour-nal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment ,2025(11):114002, 2025.