Title: Microsoft Word - dG CPP_Mar26.docx

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.22214v1

Published Time: Mon, 27 Apr 2026 00:21:42 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
Non -volatile superconducting tunnelling magnetoresistance memory enabled by 

exchange -field gap engineering 

Sonam Bhakat 1, Pushpak Banerjee 1, Ahmedullah Aziz 2, Jackson Miller 3 and Avradeep Pal* 1, 4 

> 1

Department of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science, Indian Institute of Technology 

Bombay, Powai, Mumbai, Maharashtra – 400076, India 

> 2

Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, 

Tennessee 37996, USA 

> 3

Paihau -Robinson Research Institute, Victoria University of Wellington, PO Box 33436, Petone 5046, 

New Zealand  

> 4

Centre of Excellence in Quantum Information, Computation, Science and Technology, Indian 

Institute of Technology Bombay, Powai, Mumbai, Maharashtra – 400076, India 

Abstract 

Scalable, low -dissipation memory operating below 4K is a critical requirement for superconducting and 

quantum computing systems. Existing cryogenic memory technologies rely on CMOS derivatives or 

hybrid architectures that incur leakage, refresh ov erhead or limited compatibility with superconducting 

logic. Here we demonstrate a superconducting tunnelling magnetoresistance device that functions as a 

non -volatile cryogenic memory element across the full superconducting temperature range. By 

integratin g a de Gennes spin valve with a superconducting tunnel junction in a current -perpendicular -

to -plane geometry, we realize exchange -field -controlled modulation of the superconducting energy gap, 

producing two magnetically switchable gap voltages and robust quasiparticle tunnelling 

magnetoresistance down to 0.2 5K. The device operates at millivolt bias with nanowatt -level read power 

and zero standby dissipation. Its vertical junction architecture and Nb -based materials platform enable 

compatibility with superco nducting logic and scalable cryogenic memory arrays. 

Introduction 

The rapid developments in quantum computing and superconducting digital logic have exposed a 

critical bottleneck in cryogenic hardware: the absence of scalable, energy -efficient, non -volatile 

memory technologies compatible with operation below 4K. Existing cryogenic memory approaches 1

rely largely on CMOS derivatives or hybrid architectures that incur static power dissipation, thermal 

overhead and architectural incompatibility with superconducting circuitry. As superconducting 

processors approach system -level integration, the developme nt of native cryogenic memory elements 

has become a pressing technological challenge. 

Magnetic tunnel junctions underpin modern non -volatile memory at room temperature through 

tunnelling magnetoresistance (TMR) 2–4, where relative magnetic alignment con trols electronic 

transport. An analogous device principle within superconducting electronics has remained elusive. 

While superconducting spintronics enables proximity induced magnetic control of superconducting 

properties 5–8, and conversely - superconduc ting control of magnetism 9,10 ; demonstrated device 

implementations of superconducting spin valves have largely been limited to current -in -plane (CIP) 

geometries 11 in which resistive switching vanishes deep in the superconducting state. As a result, most 

superconducting spin -valve devices cease to function precisely in the low -temperature regime where 

cryogenic electronics must operate. This has propelled the need for extensive researc h into new device 

concepts, often with greater control over the superconducting transition temperature modulations 12,13 ,

and devices with absolute switching characteristics 14 –18 . In addition to the above, C IP devices are 

inherently incompatible with vertically scalable, high -density memory architectures based on current -

perpendicular (CPP) transport .

Here we demonstrate a superconducting TMR device that overcome s th ese fundamental limitation s by 

exploiting exchange -fi eld control of the superconducting energy gap rather than resistance alone. By 

integrating a de Gennes spin valve 10,18 –22 with a superconducting tunnel junction in a CPP geometry, we 

convert magnetization -dependent critical temperature modulation into magnetically switchable quasiparticle tunnelling spectra. This architecture yields two distinct superconducting gap voltages 

corresponding to parallel and antiparallel magnet ic configurations, enabling non -volatile quasiparticle 

tunnelling magnetoresistance (QTMR) , starting from the superconducting transition temperature and 

down to the lowest temperatures . The device operates as a superconducting analogue of a conventional 

TM R element, but with dissipation -less electrodes and intrinsic compatibility with cryogenic logic. The 

demonstrated bias dependence of QTMR further enables multi -level state encoding, providing a route 

toward in -memory and neuromorphic computing architectur es at cryogenic temperatures. By 

establishing exchange -field engineering of the superconducting gap as a device -level control parameter, 

this work introduces a scalable platform for non -volatile superconducting memory and switching 

technologies compatible with next -generation cryogenic computing systems. 

Device concept 

Figure 1|: a) A cartoon representation of a fabricated de Gennes spin valve, with FI1/S/FI2/N/I/S layers 

for probing both CIP (measured using a current source and voltmeter in blue colour which probes the 

S1 layer) and CPP characteristics (simplistically demonstrated by using a current source and voltmeter 

in green colour , which probes the characteristics of the S1/FI2/N/I/S2 tunnel junction. In actual 

experiment, the differential conductance of the tunnel junction is measured by means of an AC+DC 

adder box and a lockin amplifier) b) Expected magnetic characteristics of t he unpatterned sample. c) 

Cartoon illustration of CIP resistivity of the S1 layer (Red and golden solid lines), and superconducting 

gap behaviour of the S1 layer (Red and golden dashed curves); along with various regions of operation 

of the device d) A cart oon representation of the gap voltage dependence on relative magnetization 

orientation of the S1 layer. Lighter (darker) shade of yellow in S1 layer at fields corresponding to P 

(AP) orientations of the FI layers point to a lower (higher) gap voltage of th e S1 layer e) Expected 

relative magnetization orientation dependent gap structure in the CPP measurement geometry f) 

Expected relative magnetization orientation dependent IV curves in the CPP measurement geometry. 

Inset shows possible relative magnetizatio n orientation dependent bistable switching behaviour of the 

device due to gap tunability in S1 layer. 

A de Gennes spin valve consists of a superconducting (S) thin film sandwiched between two 

ferromagnetic insulating (FI) layers 19 . Depending on the relat ive orientation of the FI layers, the 

exchange field in the S layer can ideally vary from zero to a maximum value for the anti -parallel (AP) 

and parallel (P) configurations respectively. Thus far, all known demonstrations of de Gennes Spin 

valves have been in the CIP geometry 10,18,20 –22 . From a transport perspective, the measurable physical quantities in the CIP geometry are resistance (R) and transition temperature ( 𝑇 !). Due to the magnetic 

orientation dependent variation of exchange field, the 𝑇 ! of the device is highest and lowest for the AP 

state ( 𝑇 !

> "#

) and P state ( 𝑇 !

> #

) configurations respectively. Hence, no perceptible resistance difference 

between the AP and P states appear in these devices below a particular temperature ( 𝑇 < 𝑇 !

> #

). This 

presents a major drawback which limits the operation regime of such CIP devices to a narrow range of 

temperatures ranging between 𝑇 ! 

> #

to 𝑇 !

> "#

.

However, a superco nductor with tuneable 𝑇 ! should also exhibit a tunable superconducting gap 

parameter ( ∆). Since the superconducting gap and 𝑇 ! are inextricably linked together by the BCS 

relation ∆$ = 1.76 𝑘 %𝑇 !; in a de Gennes spin valve, the superconducting layer wi ll have its ∆ to be 

dependent on the relative orientation of the FI layers; with ∆"# (∆#) corresponding to the higher (lower) 

𝑇 ! states, when the FIs are in AP (P) configurations respectively. Most notably, in the instance the 

device exhibits a percep tible and significant ∆𝑇 !; starting from the highest temperature of operation 

(𝑇 !

> "#

) and right down to absolute zero, the relation ∆"# > ∆# must always hold true. Hence, 

irres pective of measurement temperature, the gap voltage of S1 layer can be s witched by the application 

of a magnetic field. This change of attaining either the ∆"# and ∆#value, can be measured by means of 

tunneling spectroscopy , and used to obtain superconducting TMR and described below .

The above discussion forms the basis of our novel device concept which is illustrated in detail through 

Figure 1 by means of a series of cartoon depictions. In Figure 1a, we show the typical device geometry 

which will be used to demonstrate both CIP and CPP behaviours . A multi (six) laye red thin film stack 

(FI1/S/FI2/N/I/S) is grown, and mesa -type tunnel junctions are fabricated and wire bonded as shown in 

Figure 1a to facilitate the study of the bottom thin -S layer (S1 in Figure 1a) sandwiched between two 

FI layers having dissimilar swit ching fields as shown in Figure 1c. Measurement in CIP geometry 

entails four -probe resistance measurement of the FI1/S1/FI2 de Gennes spin valve. The S1 layer is 

expected to show two different transition temperatures, as shown in Figure 1c. In the CIP mode , the S1 

layer has three regions of operation. In Region I (above 𝑇 !

> "#

), there is no superconductivity in the S1 

layer. In the range 𝑇 ! 

> #

< 𝑇 < 𝑇 !

> "#

, marked Region II, the device should switch between the normal and 

superconducting states depending on relative magnetic orientation of FI layers and demonstrate non -

volatile bistable behaviour – as demonstrated in two prior work s of ours 18,22 . In Region III, when 𝑇 <

𝑇 !

> #

, the S1 layer always remains in the zero -resistance state , and this is immune t o any changes in 

relative magnetic orientations of the FI layers. 

In the CPP geometry, the device shown in Figure 1a is essentially a series connection of two 

superconducting tunnel junctions. The FI1 layer being an insulator, does not participate in the transport 

process. Star ting from the bottom, we have a S1/F2/N junction, which is connected in series with a 

N/I/S2 junction; where the N layer serves as a common link between the two. Such a device allows 

tunnelling spectroscopy of both S1 and S2 superconductors. The S1 layer superconducting gap is 

expected to be a function of relative magnetic orientations of the FI layers, as shown in Figure 1d (lighter 

shade of yellow in S1 layer is indicative of low gap superconductor ∆&' 

> #

), as comp ared to deeper shade 

of yellow ( ∆&'

> "#

)). In Figure 1e, an indicative cartoon tunneling spectrum of the device is shown, where 

a clear difference in the spectral features presents as a result of the changing FI layer orientations . In 

terms of measurable IV characteristics, as shown in Figure 1f, this should translate to an appreciable 

voltage bulge between voltages corresponding to ∆&' 

> #

and ∆&'

> "#

. This implies that clear bistable switching 

modes can be achieved in these devices for a certain range o f current bias corresponding the region of 

voltage bulge. Owing to the fact that the relation ∆&'

> "#

(𝑇 ) > ∆&' 

> #

(𝑇 ) always holds true (as shown in 

Figure 1b); such a switching behavior should persist at all temperatures 𝑇 < 𝑇 ! 

> "#

(encompassing both 

Regions II and III). This should make such a device a very attractive candidate for cryogenic memory, 

cryogenic switching and several other superconducting spintronics applications. 

CIP characteristics of the de Gennes spin valve 

To realize the device concept, we grow a multi -layered stack of GdN ( 9nm)/ Nb (10nm)/ GdN ( 4nm)/Al 

(7nm) -AlOx/ Nb (100nm) on top of a buffer layer of AlN . This stack is then subjected to a multi -step 

lithography process to fabricate mesa type square shaped tunnel junctions with edge length of 5𝜇𝑚 (Please refer to the methods section for details on growth and device fabrication ). The FI2 layer 

thickness is deliberately kept high (> 3nm) in order to suppress Cooper pair tunneling 23 . In Figure 2, we 

show the CIP characteristics of the device (where only three functional layers GdN (9nm)/ Nb (10nm)/ 

GdN (4nm) – come into play) , which essentially translates to the magneto -transport study of the bottom 

S1 layer. Figure 2a shows a colour map of the S1 laye r where magnetoresistance has been studied as a 

function of temperature. The distinctive features of typical CIP de Gennes spin valves are clearly visible. 

These include a) a clear difference in P and AP state 𝑇 ! with 𝑇 ! 

> #

< 𝑇 ! 

> "#

b) a clear broade ning in second 

switching field (referred to as 𝐻 !)) with decreasing temperatures in the range 𝑇 ! 

> #

to 𝑇 ! 

> "#

, while the first 

switching field (referred to as 𝐻 !') stays constant c) a sharp switch to the 𝑇 ! 

> "#

state at 𝐻 !'. In Figure 

2b, we co mpare magneto -resistance and magnetization measurements. The switching fields at various 

temperatures match well with switching in magnetizations and increase in second switching field 

(deemed to be that of 4nm GdN from comparisons of magnitude of switchab le magnetizations) are 

almost identical in both measurements. Individual RT measurements indicating 𝑇 !

> #

and 𝑇 ! 

> "#

of the S1 

layer are shown in Figure 2c. These features are a reproduction of CIP device characteristics of the same 

trilayer system prese nted in a prior publicatio n22 .

Figure 2: CIP behaviour of the AlN (20nm)/ GdN ( 9nm)/ Nb (10nm)/ GdN (4nm)/Al ( 7nm) -AlOx/ Nb 

(100nm) device a) Colour map shows Resistance vs magnetic field behaviour measured at various 

temperatures (3.7K to 4.25K) of S1 layer in CIP mode. Measurements are only shown for 0 to +15mT 

and 0 to -15mT sweeps of field. Inset to Figure a show the temperature dependence of the two switching 

fields which are extracted from the colour map b) Combined CIP magneto -resistance (patterned sample) 

and magnetization behaviour (of unpatterned sample) at 3.8K, 4K and 4.2K. c) Two line -cuts from 

Figure 2a to demonstrate the R vs T measurements at P and AP fields (+15mT and -4.5 mT) respectively. 

Demonstration of superconducting gap tuneability in CPP ge ometry 

In Figure 3a, we show the color map of temperature dependent normalized differential conductance of 

the device for its P and AP states measured in CPP geometry (refer to Figure 1a). The colour map is 

shown for voltage range (< 1.6mV) where gap features cor responding to the thin S1 layer is visible. 

The evolution of two distinctly different gap voltages, one originating at 3.8K ( ∆#) - corresponding to 

P state (upper panel of Figure 3a), and the other originating at 4.2K ( ∆"# ) - corresponding to AP state 

(lower panel of Figure 3a) and saturating to markedly different gap voltage values at the lowest 

temperatures are evident. To gain further insight on the magnetic tunability of the superconducting gap 

of the S1 layer, in Figure 3b, we show the differential conductance plotted as a colour map at various 

external magnetic fields, recorded at a constant temperature (0.26K). At approximately 1.1mV, a visible 

change from the background can be seen as spike like features at the AP fields on either side 

(approximate ly + -5mT) , signifying a sudden increase in conductance as compared to the background 

conductance at all other magnetic fields. This feature occurs due to the sudden switch of the S1 gap 

voltage from ∆# to ∆"# at the AP fields. In Figure 3c, we show P an d AP field line cut s of differential 

conductance measurements in Figure 3b, at 4K (lower panel) and 0.26K (upper panel). T his 

demonstrates that magnetically tuneable gap voltages can indeed be achieved in our device at all 

temperatures lower than 𝑇 !

> "#

. The S2 layer should remain unaffected by changes in relative 

magnetization orientations of the FI layer. This is observed when the same Figure 3a is shown for larger 

voltage values and is shown in Supplementary Figure S1. Please refer to Supplementary Figures S2 for 

dI/dV plots at the P and AP states for various temperatures; and to Supplementary Figure S3 for more 

elaborate colormaps as those presented in Figure 3b, at several other temperatures. Figure 3: CPP behaviour of the device a) Top (bottom) panel shows colormap of normalized differential 

conductance measurements done at fields corresponding to the P (AP) orientatio n of F1 and F2 layers 

at several temperatures from 1.7K to 4.3K. b) Differential conductance colour maps as a function of 

bias voltage and in -plane magnetic field at representative temperatures T=0.26K (top), 2.5K (bottom 

left), and 4K (bottom right), showi ng pronounced enhancements of normalized differential conductance 

signals at fields corresponding to AP orientation between FI1 and FI2 layers. Black arrows indicate 

field sweep direction. c) Current –voltage characteristics (solid lines, corresponding to l eft y axis) and 

associated normalized differential conductance spectra (dashed lines, right y axis) for the P state ( 𝐻 #,

gold) and AP states (− 𝐻 "# , red) at T=0.2 6K (top) and 4K (bottom). Inset in top panel: magnified view 

of the experimentally measured voltage bulge region showing distinct IV features for P and AP states. 

Bistable switching behaviour of TMR in CPP device 

Switching experiments on de Gennes spin valves have shown evidence of non -volatile bistable 

characteristic s18,21,22 . However, as previously remarked, due to the CIP nature of these devices, such 

non -volatile switchable bistable resistance has always been restricted to a narrow range of temperatures 

𝑇 ! 

> #

< 𝑇 < 𝑇 !

> "#

. In the case of our device, in the CPP geometry, no temperature restriction of magnetic 

switching of gap voltage is expected. To test this hypothesis, we apply a constant read current ( 𝐼 *) to 

our device such that 𝐼 (∆#) < 𝐼 * < 𝐼 (∆"# ), and measure the zero -field resistance after cycling the 

magnetic fiel ds between ±𝐻 "# (equivalent to ±𝐻 !'), after initially saturating both magnetic layers by 

applying a magnetic field of 𝐻 # = +15 𝑚𝑇 . Here 𝐼 (∆#), and 𝐼 (∆"# ) roughly correspond to the current 

bias required to access the ∆# and ∆"# voltages of the S1 layer. This procedure amounts to measuring 

the tunability and bistable nature of the quasiparticle tunnelling magneto -resistance (QTMR) of the 

device. The QTMR is defined as 𝑄𝑇𝑀𝑅 (%) = +!" ,+"

> +"

× 100 . As shown in Figures 4a and 4b, the 

expected bistability of QTMR is measurable down to the lowest temperatures. 

Figure 4| Demonstration of non -volatile bistable switching in CPP mode, at (a) T=0.25K (Region III of 

Figure 1c) and (b) T=4K (Region II of Figure 1c), under periodic in -plane magnetic field sweeps. Top 

panels: normalized voltage -

> -#$%

showing sharp transitions between P and AP states. Bottom panels: 

applied magnetic field 𝜇 $𝐻 versus time, with dashed lines indicating the fields used for cycling for 

each temperature. c) Bias current dependence of the QTMR ratio, with QTMR (%), measured at 

different temperatures, showing a pronounced peak that shifts with temperature and decrea ses in 

magnitude upon approaching 𝑇 !.

As evinced through the cartoon IV characteristics shown in Figure 1f, the magnitude of QMTR should 

be current bias dependent. Moreover, at the highest temperatures of operation 𝑇 ~𝑇 ! 

> "#

, the device 

should exhibi t the lowest magnitudes of ∆"# and ∆#, and hence QTMR should appear at low magnitudes of 𝐼 *. Furthermore, if ∆"# (∆#) exhibit typical BCS like behavior, both these magnitudes should saturate 

at low temperatures. This should be reflected through sat urated QTMR at approximately constant 𝐼 *

below a particular temperature. The QTMR should also only be observable between only a certain range 

of current biases corresponding to 𝐼 (∆#), and 𝐼 (∆"# ). We show all of these expected device behaviors 

in Figu re 4c for the entire temperature range of device operation. The slight increase in QTMR at the 

lowest temperatures can be attributed to lowering of thermal noise at lower temperatures. 

Discussion on dI/dV spectral features 

In FI/thin -S structures, due to FI proximity -induced exchange fields, the thin -S1 layer should exhibit 

quasiparticle spin split DOS 7,24 –28 . Such features in DOS can show up in tunnelling spectroscopy 

measurements, and a full -fledged theoretical fitting of the IV and d ifferential conductance curves should 

consider these features. However, Nb based superconductors are known to have significantly large spin 

orbit scattering 29 and Dynes parameter 30 and other factors like finite background DOS 31 , due to 

proximity coupling, which leads to broadening of the DOS features. The combination of all these can 

contribute to masking or substantial broadening of spin splitting features in the tunnelling conductance 

spectrum . Hence, when compared to the relativ ely larger effects of appearance of two distinct 

magnetically tuneable gap voltage s; manifestations of spin degeneracy lifted quasiparticle DOS can be 

considered second order effects which will not have significant bearing on the main results presented 

here . Please refer to Supplementary Figures S4 and S5 and discussions therein, for a simplistic model 

of tunnelling conductance for this device which tries to reproduce the measured spectra for P and AP 

states. 

Cryogenic memory operation and in -memory computi ng compatibility 

The device’s non -volatile nature of QTMR presents a highly attractive platform for memory 

technologies operating at cryogenic temperatures 1. For a given magnetic configuration, the application 

of an identical bias voltage results in two distinct current levels which can be distinguished using 

suitable peripheral superconducting circuitry 32 , enabling reliable, zero -standby -power readout. Beyond 

conventional storage, the intrinsic non -volatility of the device naturally fits itself to in -memory 

computing paradigms at the array level, where computation and storage are co -located. Such 

architectures significantly mitigate data movement overheads and enhance energy efficiency -an 

increasingly critical requirement for next -generation AI hard ware. Furthermore, the ability to obtain a 

bias dependent QTMR (as presented in Figure 4c) enables multi -level state encoding, which can be 

directly mapped onto synaptic weight levels for neuromorphic computing 33 . This multi -state capability 

allows the e mulation of synaptic plasticity with enhanced information density. When integrated with 

superconducting circuits, this approach combines the ultra -low -power, high -speed advantages of 

superconducting electronic s34 with the data -locality and parallelism in herent to neuromorphic 

computing. As a result, the proposed device architecture presents a compelling pathway toward 

scalable, energy -efficient cryogenic memory and cryogenic neuromorphic systems 35 .

Conclusions 

In conclusion, we have demonstrate d a superconducting TMR device that converts exchange -field 

modulation in a spin valve into magnetically switchable control of the superconducting energy gap. By 

integrating a de Gennes spin valve with a superconducting tunnel junction in a CPP geometry, we realize 

non -volatile QTMR that persists across the entire superconducting regime. Although the present devices 

employ 5 𝜇𝑚 mesa, the operating principle is defined entirely by a vertical FI/S/FI/N/I/S multilayer 

stack analogous to magnetic tu nnel junctions. Gap control depends on layer thickness and interfacial 

coupling rather than lateral area, indicating no intrinsic barrier to sub -micrometre scaling; area reduction 

will proportionally lower read current and power while increasing integratio n density without altering 

the mechanism. Operating at millivolt bias with nanowatt -level read power and zero standby 

dissipation, this architecture establishes exchange -field -engineered gap control as a scalable route 

toward non -volatile cryogenic memory and hardware -ready in -memory architectures for hybrid 

classical –quantum systems. Methods 

Growth of multilayers 

Multilayers of the type AlN (15nm)/ GdN (9nm)/ Nb (10nm)/ GdN (4nm)/Al ( 7nm) -AlOx/ Nb (100nm) 

layer thickness were grown on n -doped Si substrates with a 285nm thermal oxide. Growth was carried 

out in an ultra -high vacuum custom designed sputtering system with four DC magnetrons and one RF 

magnetron, with a base pressure below 2 × 10 ,. mbar. All laye rs were grown in the same sputtering 

run without breaking vacuum. The bottom AlN layer act as buffer layer for growth of GdN. AlN was 

grown using RF sputtering from an Al target using a 56%Ar and 44% N2 reactive gas mixture, and 

GdN was grown using a 92%Ar and 8% N2 reactive gas mixture from a Gd target. Nb and Al layers 

were grown using Ar gas plasma from Nb and Al targets respectively. After the growth of the Al layer, 

the vacuum chamber was filled with high purity oxygen, and subjected to Pressure -time ( Pt) product of 

15kPa -sec to grow the AlOx layer. 

CPP device fabrication 

The deposited stacks were processed using a four -stage optical lithography process to fabricate square 

shaped mesa junctions 36 . First, a narrow strip containing all layers was etched out using 𝐶𝐹 / for the Nb 

layers, and Argon ion milling for the Al -AlOx, and GdN layers. In the second step, mesas were defined 

within this narrow strip, and the top Nb and Al -AlOx layers were etche d out. Next, a via was fabricated 

on top of the mesas, and all mesas were electrical isolated from each other, using 𝑆𝑖𝑂 ) deposition and 

lift -off. Finally, a layer of superconducting Nb was deposited and lifted off to contact the mesas through 

the via d efined in the last step. 

Electronic and magnetic measurements 

Low -temperature electrical measurements were done in Oxford Teslatron PT cryostat, where a base 

temperature of 0.26K can be achieved using a H e3 insert. Measurements down to 1.7K was carried o ut 

in a separate probe, while all measurements below 1.7K was carried out in the He3 insert. For CIP 

measurements, a current of 100 𝜇𝐴 was used. For dI/dV measurements in the CPP geometry, an 

operational amplifier based summing amplifier was used to enable addition of a constant AC and 

varying DC bias, which was fed into the device. dV/dI measurements were obtained directly using a 

lockin amplifier and its reciprocal was numerically calculated to get the dI/dV signal. Magnetic fields 

were applied parallel to the plane of the films. Switching measurements were performed by using a

constant DC read current , and monitoring the voltage output of the device using a voltmete r. 

Magnetometry measurements presented were performed using the reciprocating sample option (RSO) 

mode of a commercially available Magnetic Property Measurement System (MPMS) from Quantum 

Design. The applied magnetic field was isothermally swept from a lar ge positive field (ensuring the 

GdN present in the sample was saturated) to the same magnitude field in the opposite direction and then 

returned to the initial condition. Each data point is the average of three separate measurements in which 

the magnetisat ion is inferred from a comparison with an ideal dipole response. 

Acknowledgements 

AP, SB and PB was financially supported by a Core Research Grant from the Department of Science 

and Technology, Science and Engineering Research Board, India (Grant No. CRG/2019/004758). JM 

was supported by the New Zealand Endeavour fund (Grant No. RTVU1810) and SMART Idea Grant 

(Grant No. RTVU2504), both funded by the New Zealand Ministry of B usiness Innovation and 

Employment. 

Author contributions 

AP conceived the idea. SB grew the multilayers, fabricated the devices and performed all electrical 

measurements. PB helped in differential conductance measurements and simulation of the results of 

tunnelling spectro scopy. JM performed magnetic measurements. AZ helped in identifying practical use 

cases of the devices. All authors discussed the results and contributed to preparing the manuscript. References 

1. Alam, S., Hossain, M. S., Srinivasa, S. R. & Aziz, A. Cry ogenic memory technologies. Nat. 

Electron. 6, 185 –198 (2023). 

2. Julliere, M. Tunneling between ferromagnetic films. Phys. Lett. A 54 , 225 –226 (1975). 

3. Moodera, J. S., Kinder, L. R., Wong, T. M. & Meservey , R. Large magnetoresistance at room 

temperature in ferromagnetic thin film tunnel junctions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 74 , 3273 –3276 

(1995). 

4. Parkin, S. S. P. et al. Giant tunnelling magnetoresistance at room temperature with MgO (100) 

tunnel barriers. Nat. Mate r. 3, 862 –867 (2004). 

5. Linder, J. & Robinson, J. W. A. Superconducting spintronics. Nat. Phys. 11 , 307 –315 (2015). 

6. Mel’nikov, A. S., Mironov, S. V., Samokhvalov, A. V. & Buzdin, A. I. Superconducting 

spintronics: state of the art and prospects. Physic s-Uspekhi 65 , 1248 –1289 (2022). 

7. Bergeret, F. S., Silaev, M., Virtanen, P. & Heikkilä, T. T. Colloquium: Nonequilibrium effects 

in superconductors with a spin -splitting field. Rev. Mod. Phys. 90 , 041001 (2018). 

8. Eschrig, M. Spin -polarized supercurrents for spintronics: a review of current progress. Reports 

on Progress in Physics 78 , 104501 (2015). 

9. Golubov, A. A. & Kupriyanov, M. Yu. Superconductivity: Controlling magnetism. Nat. Mater. 

16 , 156 –157 (2017). 

10. Zhu, Y., Pal, A., Blamire, M. G. & Barber , Z. H. Superconducting exchange coupling between 

ferromagnets. Nat. Mater. 16 , 195 –199 (2017). 

11. Kushnir, V. N., Sidorenko, A., Tagirov, L. R. & Kupriyanov, M. Y. Basic superconducting 

spin valves. NanoScience and Technology 1–29 (2018) doi:10.1007/978 -3-319 -90481 -8_1. 

12. Hauser, J. J. Coupling Between Ferrimagnetic Insulators Through a Superconducting Layer. 

Phys. Rev. Lett. 23 , 374 –377 (1969). 

13. Li, B. et al. Superconducting Spin Switch with Infinite Magnetoresistance Induced by an 

Internal Exchange Field. Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 , 097001 (2013). 

14. Dutta, B., Bhakat, S., Banerjee, P. & Pal, A. Signatures of superconducting exchange coupling 

revealed through magnetic switching experiments. Phys. Rev. Appl. 24 , 044053 (2025). 

15. Bhakat, S., Samanta, S., Mahapatra, S. & Pal, A. Bistable and absolute switching driven by 

superconducting exchange coupling. Nat. Commun. 16 , 9609 (2025). 

16. Singh, A., Voltan, S., Lahabi, K. & Aarts, J. Colossal Proximity Effect in a Superconducting 

Triplet Spin Va lve Based on the Half -Metallic Ferromagnet CrO2. Phys. Rev. X 5, 021019 

(2015). 

17. Gu, Y., Halász, G., Robinson, J. W. A. & Blamire, M. G. Large Superconducting Spin Valve 

Effect and Ultrasmall Exchange Splitting in Epitaxial Rare -Earth -Niobium Trilayers. Phys. 

Rev. Lett. 115 , 1 –5 (2015). 

18. Huertas -Hernando, D., Nazarov, Yu. & Belzig, W. Absolute Spin -Valve Effect with 

Superconducting Proximity Structures. Phys. Rev. Lett. 88 , 047003 (2002). 

19. Stamopoulos, D., Aristomenopoulou, E. & Manios , E. Absolute supercurrent switch in 

ferromagnetic/superconducting/ferromagnetic trilayers operating at T &gt; 4.2 K. Appl. Phys. 

Lett. 105 , 112602 (2014). 

20. De Simoni, G., Strambini, E., Moodera, J. S., Bergeret, F. S. & Giazotto, F. Toward the 

Absolute Spin -Valve Effect in Superconducting Tunnel Junctions. Nano Lett. 18 , 6369 –6374 

(2018). 

21. Matsuki, H. et al. Realisation of de Gennes’ absolute superconducting switch with a heavy 

metal interface. Nat. Commun. 16 , 5674 (2025). 

22. De Gennes, P. G. Coupl ing between ferromagnets through a superconducting layer. Physics 

Letters 23 , 10 –11 (1966). 

23. Pal, A., Barber, Z. H., Robinson, J. W. A. & Blamire, M. G. Pure second harmonic current -

phase relation in spin -filter Josephson junctions. Nat. Commun. 5, 3340 (2014). 

24. Tokuyasu, T., Sauls, J. A. & Rainer, D. Proximity effect of a ferromagnetic insulator in contact 

with a superconductor. Phys. Rev. B 38 , 8823 –8833 (1988). 

25. Hao, X., Moodera, J. S. & Meservey, R. Thin -film superconductor in an exchange field . Phys. 

Rev. Lett. 67 , 1342 –1345 (1991). 26. Hijano, A. et al. Coexistence of superconductivity and spin -splitting fields in 

superconductor/ferromagnetic insulator bilayers of arbitrary thickness. Phys. Rev. Res. 3,

023131 (2021). 

27. Banerjee, P., Sharma, P. K., Bhakat, S., Dutta, B. & Pal, A. Large tunable exchange fields due 

to purely paramagnetically limited domain wall superconductivity. Phys. Rev. B 108 , L140502 

(2023). 

28. Xiong, Y. M., Stadler, S., Adams, P. W. & Catelani, G. Sp in -resolved tunneling studies of the 

exchange field in EuS/Al bilayers. Phys. Rev. Lett. 106 , 1 –4 (2011). 

29. Meservey, R. & Tedrow, P. M. Spin -polarized electron tunneling. Phys. Rep. 238 , 173 –243 

(1994). 

30. Proslier, T. et al. Tunneling study of cavity grade Nb: Possible magnetic scattering at the 

surface. Appl. Phys. Lett. 92 , (2008). 

31. Pal, A. & Blamire, M. G. Large interfacial exchange fields in a thick superconducting film 

coupled to a spin -filter tunnel barrier. Phys. Rev. B 92 , 180510(R) (2015). 

32. Alam, S., Islam, M. M., Hossain, M. S. & Aziz, A. Superconducting Josephson Junction FET -

based Cryogenic Voltage Sense Amplifier. in 2022 Device Research Conference (DRC) 1–2

(IEEE, 2022). doi:10.1109/DRC55272.2022.9855654. 

33. Sun, B. et al. Synaptic devices based neuromorphic computing applications in artificial 

intelligence. Materials Today Physics 18 , 100393 (2021). 

34. Holmes, D. S., Ripple, A. L. & Manheimer, M. A. Energy -Efficient Superconducting 

Computing —Power Budgets and Requirements. IEEE Tra nsactions on Applied 

Superconductivity 23 , 1701610 –1701610 (2013). 

35. Islam, M. M., Alam, S., Hossain, M. S., Roy, K. & Aziz, A. A review of cryogenic 

neuromorphic hardware. J. Appl. Phys. 133 , (2023). 

36. Blamire , M. G. G., Pal, A., Barber, Z. H. H. & Senapati, K. Spin filter superconducting tunnel 

junctions. in Proc. SPIE vol. 8461 84610J (2012). Supplementary information to 

Non -volatile superconducting tunnelling magnetoresistance memory enabled by 

exchange -field gap engineering           

> Sonam Bhakat 1, Pushpak Banerjee 1, Ahmedullah Aziz 2, Jackson Miller 3and Avradeep Pal* 1,4
> 1Department of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science, Indian Institute of Technology
> Bom bay, Powai, Mumbai, Maharashtra –400076, India
> 2Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
> Tennessee 37996, USA
> 3Paihau -Robinson Research Institute, Victoria University of Wellington, PO Box 33436, Petone
> 5046, New Zealand
> 4Centre of Excellence in Quantum Information, Computation, Science and Technology, Indian
> Institute of Technology Bombay, Powai, Mumbai, Maharashtra –400076, India

1. 𝒅𝑰 /𝒅𝑽 spectra showing the conductance of both S1 an d S2 superconducting electrodes 

Supplementary Figure 1 shows the temperature –dependent differential -conductance spectra for 

the P (top) and AP (bottom) magnetic configurations. The lower -voltage conductance feature 

corresponds to the S1 electrode (Figure 3a in main manuscript). The higher -bias conductance 

feature (starting from approximately 2.35mV) is associated with the thick S2 electrode, remains 

essentially unchanged over the entire temperature range shown, with no observable dependence 

on magnetic con figuration. This confirms that S2 is magnetically decoupled from the spin -

valve structure and serves as a stable reference superconductor, while all magnetic -state –

dependent modifications arise exclusively from S1. 

Supplementary Figure S1: Top (bottom) panel shows colormap of differential conductance 

measurements done at fields corresponding to the P (AP) orientation of F1 and F2 layers at 

several temperatures from 1.7K to 4.3K. 2. 𝒅𝑰 /𝒅𝑽 Spectra at different temperatures at 𝐻 !" and 𝐻 "

Supplementary Figure S2| Evolution of normalized differential conductance spectra of the 

device with temperature at two different magnetic fields magnetic fields corresponding to (a) 

P state (measured at 𝐻 ") (b) AP state (measured at −𝐻 !" after application of + 𝐻 ").

3. 𝒅𝑰 /𝒅𝑽 colormaps of the device under magnetic -field sweeps at various temperatures 

Supplementary Figure S3 | 𝑑𝐼 /𝑑𝑉 colormaps of the device under magnetic -field sweeps, 

plotted as a function of bias voltage 𝑉 and in -plane magnetic field 𝜇 #𝐻 for temperatures ranging 

from 𝑇 = 1𝐾 to 𝑇 = 4.2𝐾 . At low temperatures, the characteristic superconducting coherence peaks of S1 generate bright, field -dependent ridges that sharpen around the switching fields of 

the magnetic layers. With increasing temperature, these features progressively weaken and sh ift 

toward lower voltages, reflecting the reduction of the superconducting gap. By 𝑇 ≈ 4.2 𝐾 , the 

spectra become nearly field -independent as S1 approaches the fully normal state (close to 𝑇 !

> "# )

.

Supplementary Figure S3 presents the evolution of the d ifferential -conductance spectrum of 

the device, as a function of magnetic field and temperature. At low temperatures, distinct 

coherence peaks appear at symmetric (positive and negative) bias voltages, as the FI layers 

switch magnetization, revealing the m agnetic sensitivity of the S1 superconducting density of 

states. As the temperature increases, the superconducting gap gradually decreases, causing the 

high -contrast coherence -peak ridges to shift inward and diminish in amplitude. Above 

approximately 3.8–4.2 𝐾 , the gap becomes strongly suppressed and the spectra flatten, 

showing minimal dependence on magnetic field. This temperature -driven collapse of field -

sensitive spectral features confirms that the observed modulation originates from 

superconductivity in the S1 electrode rather than from changes in junction resistance or 

magnetic background. 

4. Simulated tunnelling spectra of the device 

For a comparative simulation of the observed differential conductance profile with respect to 

voltage V of the FI1 -S1 -FI2 -N-I-S2 device it was represented with a model where the full 

device is treated as a combination of two segments: 

Part1 - FI1 -S1 -FI2 -N with the proximitized superconductor S1, and 

Part2 - N-I-S2 with the counter superconducting electrode S2. 

Thus, the estimated total normalised conductance 𝑔 (𝑉 ) is a sum of individual normalised 

conductance profiles for part1 and part2 which are, 𝑔 $(𝑉 ) & 𝑔 %(𝑉 ) respectively. 

𝑔 (𝑉 ) = 𝑔 1(𝑉 ) + 𝑔 2(𝑉 ) (1) 

Supplementary Figure S4| A representation of the state spectrum of the FI1 -S1 -FI2 -N-I-S2 

structure at equilibrium. Under biased conditions the quasiparticles from the Zeeman split (E ze )

superconductor S1 (with gap 𝛥 $) tunnel through ferromagnetic insulator FI2 to normal metal 

interlayer N; and, again undergo tunnelling through an insulating barrier I before being 

collected on the superconducting electrode S2 (with gap 𝛥 %). Since, both segments are effectively S/I/N type hence following the usual definition [1], the 

normalized differential conductance for the Part1 is a convolution of the density of states 

(DOS) - 𝑁 1(𝐸 ) of S1 with the partial derivative of the fermi distribut ion 𝑓 at temperature T. 

Where, quasiparticle energy E is with respect to fermi level. However, in Part2 with the 

superconductor S2 (DOS : 𝑁 2(𝐸 )) a provision was made to account for a background 

conductance using the parameter C [2]. 

𝑔 1(𝑉 ) = 𝑁 1(𝐸 ) ⋆ &' (!"#$   

> %&')
> &*

(2) 

𝑔 2(𝑉 ) = +, .%(/)⋆  

> () (!"#$
> %&')
> ($
> +,$

(3) 

In part1, the tunnelling current is considered to be 95% (P) spin polarized by FI2 barrier. A 

host of inelastic scattering effects within S1 is summed conveniently with a dynes factor of 𝛤 $

= 0.01 𝛥 $ [3]. 

𝑁 1 = ($1").,↑,($,").,↓ 

> %

(4) 

𝑁 $↑↓ = 𝑅𝑒 C 4± 15 6$  

> 784±156$911$

D (5) 

The S1 is spin split with a Zeeman energy corresponding to 𝜇 :𝐵 = 0.2 𝛥 $. A finite contribution 

of Spin orbit scattering 𝑏 ;< ~ 0.1 𝛥 $ is also accounted for [4]. 

> /∓>&:
> ?,

= 𝑢 ± + 𝑏 𝑠𝑜 4± 14∓

> 7$14∓
> 1

(6) 

Part2 is akin to a usual S/I/N type with equal contribution from both spin channels, however a 

dynes correction of 𝛤 % = 0.05 𝛥 % is also incorporated to address the washed -out peaks. 

𝑁 2 = .1↑,.1↓ 

> %

(7) 

𝑁 %↑↓ = 𝑅𝑒 C A± 15 6%  

> 78A±156%911$

D (8) 

In the thicker electrode S2 a depairing parameter is considered of the order 𝜁 = 0.01 𝛥 % [4]. 

> /
> ?1

− 𝑣 ± C1 − B

> 7$1A±
> 1

D = 0 (9) Supplementary Figure S5| Computed differential conductance curves using an effective 

tunnelling model as discussed above . The brown curve corresponds to the saturated magnetic 

state 𝐻 ", while the red curve represents the conductance at 𝐻 !", the difference between them 

being the assumed exc hange fields in the S1 layer. 

Supplementary References: 

[1] R. Meservey and P. M . Tedrow, Spin -Polarized Electron Tunneling , Physics Reports. 

[2] A. Pal and M. G. Blamire, Large Interfacial Exchange Fields in a Thick 

Superconducting Film Coupled to a Spin -Filter Tunnel Barrier , Phys. Rev. B - Condens. 

Matter Mater. Phys. (2015). 

[3] R. C. Dynes, V. Narayanamurti, and J. P. Garno, Direct Measurement of Quasiparticle -

Lifetime Broadening in a Strong -Coupled Superconductor , Phys. Rev. Lett. (1978). 

[4] R. Meservey, P. M. Tedrow, and R. C. Bruno, Tunneling Measurements on Spin -Paired 

Superc onductors with Spin -Orbit Scattering , Phys. Rev. B (1975).