Title: 2604.19467v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.19467v1

Published Time: Wed, 22 Apr 2026 01:06:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 30

Markdown Content:
1

# Spatially -resolved voltage -reversal due to Bernoulli 

# potentials in dissipative Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x 

*Sharadh Jois 1, Gregory M. Stephen 1, Samuel W. LaGasse 1, Genda Gu 2, Aubrey T. Hanbicki 1,

*Adam L. Friedman 1

1 Laboratory for Physical Sciences, 8050 Greenmead Drive, College Park, MD 207 40 , U.S.A. 

2 Condensed Matter Physics and Materials Science Department, Brookhaven National 

Laboratory, Upton, New York 11973, USA 

*Corresponding authors: sjois@lps.umd.edu , afriedman@lps.umd.edu 

# Abstract 

We measure magneto -transport and critical currents in Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x Hall bar devices .

Above critical current in an applied magnetic field , we observe longitudinal differential voltage 

along one edge compa rable in magnitude but opposite in sign to the other edge . This phenomenon 

is unaffected by reversal of the applied field , and seems unique to devices with invasive voltage 

contacts. We attribute the source of this behavior to particle -hole symmetry breaking in moving 

vortices and the formation of opposite Bernoulli potentials due to opposing vortex velocities at the 

edges where the invasive contacts create hotspots for rapid vortex nu cleation and flux flow . These 

results are fundamental to the composition and flow of dissipative currents in layered 

superconduct ors. 

# Main text 

Superconductors placed in a magnetic field exhibit the Meissner -Ochsenfeld effect, i.e., 

perfect diamagnetism because of persistent screening current s on the surface. Rhoderick and 

Wilson demonstrated that the Meissner current in superconduct ing thin films flows along the 

periphery by using Hall effect sensors 1,2 . Several subsequent theories 3,4 and magnetometry 

experiments 5,6 reproduced this behavior in type -II superconductors . The dynamics of Abrikosov 

vortex nucleation and motion emerged using SQUID -on -tip techniques for nanoscale magnetic 

imaging 7,8 . Spatial modulations at the edge of superconductors , such as invasive voltage contacts 9,2

can constri ct supercurrent flow and nucleate hotspots for vortex accumulation 7,10 . Vort ices can 

also experience Bernoulli and Magnus effects, however, d espite the wealth of research into 

superconduct ing devices, concrete evidence of mesoscopic Bernoulli potentials 11 –13 is mostly 

unexplored. 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x (BSCCO), a high -Tc two -dimensional superconductor 14 , has generated 

much research interest because of observations of sign -reversal Hall effect 15 , superconduc ting 

diode effect 16 ,17 , Josephson diode effect, 18 –20 and Klein -Andreev resonant states in junctions with 

graphene 21,22 . Despite the vast amounts of transport data, to the best of our knowledge, 

simultaneous measurements of the longitudinal voltage s along both edges of a BSCCO device 

have not been explicitly reported. Magnetoresistance an d Hall effect studies above critical current 

can yield essential mesoscopic information about composition and flow of charge carriers. Here, 

we characterize bulk BSCCO Hall bar devices as a function of temperature, current, and magnetic 

field . Additionally , we study a multi -modal Hall bar device designed to have non -invasive, 

invasive, and collinear contact geometries with increasing degrees of ‘invasiveness’ into the 

channel. Surprisingly, w hen the device with invasive contacts is measured in the presence of an 

external magnetic field below 𝑇 𝑐 and the supplied current exceeds the critical current, we observe 

the longitudinal voltage along one edge of the device is opposite in sign to the voltage on the other 

edge. We explain t his negative resistance as arising from rebalancing of kinetic energy due to 

vortex motion catalyzed by invasive contacts, leading to Bernoulli potentials . We perform a 

complete set of control experiments on multiple devices with different contact geometri es and 

eliminate the extraneous effects that could affect our observations .

Hall bar devices are fabricated on 50 -70 nm thick exfoliated flakes of BSCCO . An optical 

microscope image of a typical device is shown in  Figure 1a. In this device, the BSCCO is 69 ±3.2 

nm thick. Ohmic contacts are achieved by etching the top few layers and depositing Ag (10 nm) 

and Au (50 nm) 23 . We label the contacts C1 -C6 , as shown in Fig 1(a) , and refer to them as such 

throughout this study. We show a schematic of our measurement setup (Figure 1 (b) ) for applying 

a longitudinal DC current ( 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 ) between C1 and C4 and measuring the l ongitudinal voltages 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1

(C2 -C3) and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 (C6 -C5) along both edges of the device . Detailed f abrication and methods are 

in the Supplemental Information. 3

Figure 1. (a) O ptical image of an example Hall bar device on BSCCO (69 ±3.2 nm ). (b) Schematic of the 

electrical connections of a Hall bar device. We apply a DC current (I DC ) and measure the longitudinal 

voltages Vxx ,1 (red) and Vxx ,2 (green) along opposite edges of the device . (c) Temperature dependence of 

the longitudinal resistance (𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,1 and 𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,2) monitored simultaneously with 𝐼 DC = 0.1 mA as the device 

is cooled in different external perpendicular magnetic fields 𝐵 ⊥ = −1.0 T (red trace) , 0.0 T (black trace) ,

and +1.0 T (blue trace) . (d) I-V curves at different temperatures w ith a fixed perpendicular field of +1 T .

Clearly 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 in the normal state at 100 K (brown points) and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 in the di ssipative 

state below 60 K (blue points) .

Longitudinal resistances on either edge of the Hall bar device (𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,1= Vxx,1 /IDC and 𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,2=

Vxx ,2/IDC ) are measured simultaneously . The temperature dependence of resistance while cooling 

the devices using a constant current bias of 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 = 0.1 mA at zero applied magnetic field is the 

black trace in  Figure 1c. Both 𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,1 and 𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,2 are comparable in value in the normal state , i.e., for 

T > 90 K, after which we observe a clear superconducting transition and a corresponding zero 

resistance characteristic of the superconducting state .

We then repeat ed the measurements with perpendicular magnetic fields of 𝐵 ⊥ = +1.0 T

(Fig. 1c – blue trace) and −1.0 T (Fig. 1c – red trace) . Note that it is difficult to distinguish the 

colors because they fall nearly on top of each other. The applied current , 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 = 0.1 mA , is 

intentionally chosen to be slig htly over the critical current (𝐼 𝑐 ) measured at 𝐵 ⊥ = +1.0 T when the 4

sample is held at base temperature (1.7 K) . These conditions create a measurable non -zero 

longitudinal voltage (resistance ) in the device . As expected, because 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 > 𝐼 𝑐 , the resistance 

decreases gradually between 90 to 70 K , but does not exhibit a superconducting transition becaus e

of the suppression of superconductivity in the Meissner state and vortex dynamics 15,24 . Below 60 

K and when is 𝐵 ⊥ = ±1.0 T, the resistances on opposite side s of the device diverge 𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑅 𝑥𝑥 ,1

(Figure 1c). These opposing longitudinal resistances grow in magnitude with decreasing 

temperature . This observation was not mentioned in previous reports on sign -reversal of the Hall 

effect in Bi -based cuprate superconductors 15,25 .

Further detail on th is unique temperature -dependent resistance behavior is gleaned by 

examining the longitudinal voltages (𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2) as a function of applied current. I-V curves 

with 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 varied from −0.5 to +0.5 mA at different temperatures in the Meissner state with 𝐵 ⊥ =

+1 T, are shown in  Figure 1d. In the normal state at T = 100 K, the voltages on opposite side s of 

the channel show Ohmic behavior with positive slopes . As the sample is cooled to below 𝑇 𝑐 , t he 

slopes of both voltages gradually reduce until 70 K . B elow 60 K , the slope of 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 abruptly 

changes sign and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1. Below 50 K, a clear superconducting region returns when 

|𝐼 𝐷𝐶 | ≤ |𝐼 𝑐 |, and both voltages are zero (𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 = 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 = 0). When |𝐼 𝐷𝐶 | ≥ |𝐼 𝑐 |, however, the y

again show opposite signs ( 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1). We verify that physically changing the current 

injection leads reverses the measured voltage ( supplemental Fig. S1 ). The discrete voltage steps 

observed in the I-V curves between 10 -20 K are phase slips 26,27 . The critical current in the Meissner 

state ( supplemental Figure S2) peaks in this 10 -20 K temperature region. The observ ation of high 

critical current and hysteresis between 10 -20 K is attributed to the vortex glass transition 8,28 .

The temperature dependent observations in  Figure 1 allow us to eliminate errors in sample 

wiring. Additional data confirming th is sign reversal effect and ruling out trivial causes can be 

found in the Supplemental. Supplemental Fig . S3 addresses the transverse (𝑉 𝑥𝑦 ) component which 

also show s the sign reversal due to vortex dynamics 15,25 in the dissipative state . Supplemental Fig .

S4 shows data up to ±12 T from a nother device (57 ±1.4 nm thickness ).

Colormaps of both longitudinal voltages Vxx1 and Vxx2 (Figure 2a) measured at base 

temperature (𝑇 = 1.7 K) show the sign of the voltages does not reverse with perpendicular 

magnetic field (𝐵 ⊥), but reverses only as a function of DC current . Positive voltage values are in 5

shades of red , negative values are in shades of blue , and zero values in white corresponding to the 

superconducting regions . Comparing the two panels in  Figure 2a beyond the superconducting 

regions, we immediately notice 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 and their signs reverse with current direction. For 

a fixed dissipative current 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 = +0.1 mA , indicated by the dashed line in  Figure 2a, there is an 

invariance in the sign of the measured voltage s as a function of 𝐵 ⊥ at different temperatures , as 

can be seen in  Figure 2b. Here again, the voltages show consistent behavior (𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1)

below 40 K . The phase slips seen between 10 -20 K in critical current measurements ( Figure 1)

are also evident in  Figure 2b while sweeping magnetic field , manifesting as voltage steps . As the 

metallic state is reached at 60 K, we notice 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≠ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1, consistent with resistance data in 

Figure 1. When the magnetic field is applied in -plane at an angle of 45 ° (supplemental Fig. S 5)

with respect to the transport current, we have weaker Josephson vortices 29 between the 2D 

individual layers and the superconducting region is broader due to the anisotropy of 

superconductivity in BSCCO. In normal metals , longitudinal voltages do not reverse sign with 

magnetic fiel d. For BSCCO in the mixed state , a transport current has moving charges and vortices, 

therefore, one can expect the electric fields generated by vortex motion will create potentials which 

revers e with magnetic field. Our DC measurements clearly show that dissipative voltages do not 

reverse with field, like metals. However, the opposite sign of voltages measured at the top and 

bottom edges measured here would appear to violate the charge balance s een in conventional 

conductors. The Hall analysis below further expands on this notion. 6

Figure 2. (a) Color plots of the longitudinal voltages 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 (bottom) and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 (top) measured as a 

function of sweeping the current from -0.5 mA to +0.5 mA and stepping the perpendicular magnetic field 

(𝐵 ⊥) from -2.0 to +2.0 T in steps of 0.2 T . (b) The longitudinal voltages are shown as a function of 

magnetic field at different temperatu res while sending a fixed current of 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 = +0.1 mA. (c) Hall 

resistance ( not anti -symmetrized) at different temperatures below 60 K. Inset shows a schematic for the 

Hall voltage measurement . The data are smoothed using a local regression (LOESS) to reduce the noise 

for Hall analysis. The negative linear regions of the data corresponding to |𝐵 ⊥| ≈ 2 to 1 T are used 

estimate the carrier density in (d) . The abrupt jumps to positive values are attributed to the random shape 

of the flake resulting in longitudinal components between |𝐵 ⊥| ≈ 0.5 to 1 T in (b) leaking into the 

transverse component. These jumps are not observed if the device has rectangular geome try 

(supplemental Fig S8 ). (d) The carrier densit y as a function of temperature show s hole -like charge when 

𝐵 ⊥ < 0 (blue triangles) , and electron -like charge when 𝐵 ⊥ > 0 (red squares) . The lines are a guide for the 

eye. 

The transverse voltage ( 𝑉 𝑥𝑦 ) measur ed in the presence of a magnetic field corresponds to 

the Hall voltage. The sheet carrier density ( 𝑛 𝑠 ℎ) is related to the Hall resistance ( 𝑅 𝐻 = 𝑉 𝑥𝑦 /𝐼 𝐷𝐶 )

by 𝑛 𝑠 ℎ = 1 

> 𝑞
> 1
> (𝑑 𝑅 𝐻
> 𝑑 𝐵 ⊥)

where 𝑞 is the charge constant. The sign of 𝑑 𝑅 𝐻 

> 𝑑 𝐵 ⊥

is indicative of hole ( positive 7

slope) or electron ( negative slope) type carriers. Particle -hole symmetry breaking 30 appears i n

pseudogap systems, and above critica l current there are different slopes, corresponding to hole -

like and electron -like carriers , when the sign of the magnetic field is changed . The temperature 

and field dependence of the Hall resistance is shown i n Figure 2c. For 𝑇 < 60 K, 𝑅 𝐻 is zero 

below a dissipative critical field (𝐵 𝑐 1), and then jumps to a positive value . The sudden jump from 

zero to positive Hall resistance values in the low field regime seen here is due to the random shape 

of the BSCCO flake causing longitudinal components to bleed in as the sample transitions out of 

the superconducting state. Above 1 T , when the longitudinal components saturate, we obtain a

negative Hall resistance due to vortex flux flow .

Analysis of the Hall data (Figure 2d) shows hole -type carriers with negative applied field 

(B < 0 ), and electron -type carriers with positive applied field (B > 0). We can understand this 

behavior based on the composition of cha rge carriers in the dissipative state below T c in the 

presence of a magnetic field. When excited above the critical current , Cooper pairs can be broken 

into single particles called Bogoliubov quasiparticles 31,32 , which a re superposition s of electron and 

hole wavefunctions 31 and obey particle -hole symmetry . The measurement of different carrier types 

by changing magnetic field is evidence for breaking particle -hole symmetry enabled by moving 

vortices 33 along the transverse direction . The magnitude of the carrier densities of broken Cooper 

pairs (𝑛 𝑠 ) in the dissipative mixed state (B > B c1) decrease s from 5 × 10 15 cm -2 at 60 K to 2 × 10 15 

cm -2 at 1.7 K , and shows a spike at 20 K when there is a vortex glass transition 8. In comparison, 

the Hall analysis in the normal state at 100 K ( suppleme ntal Figure S6) shows only hole -type 

normal -state carrier density 𝑛 𝑁 = +18 .85 × 10 15 cm -2 and mobility 𝜇 = 14 .7 cm 2/s. The ratio of 

superconducting carriers to normal state carriers ( 𝑛 𝑟 = 𝑛 𝑠 /𝑛 𝑁 ≈ 10 %) is reasonable and is used 

later in the calculation of Bernoulli potential s.8

Figure 3. (a) Optical image of the “3 -in -1” device with non -invasive, invasive, and collinear contacts. 

The white scale bar below B1 corresponds to 10 μm. The width of the channel is 𝑊 = 40 μm and 

thickness 72 ±2.9 nm . We show data at 𝐵 ⊥ = +1 T and verify similar behavior in negative field. (b) 

Voltage s mea sured on both sides of the channel with the non -invas ive contacts at all temperatures. The 

temperature legend in this plot also applies to all data panels of this figure. The small signals measured 

here are due to the dissipative normal state. (c) Lon gitudinal voltages, V xx,2 (c, top, B5 -B4) and Vxx,1 (c, 

bottom, B2 -B3) from t he invasive part of the device shown in (a) . Note, this region resembles the Hall bar 

devices discussed earlier in Fig.1. (d) The collinear voltage measured across the invasive region , B1 -C1 

(L~W). (e) The collinear voltage across the short channel , C1 -C2 (L<W) .

The geometry of the voltage contacts is a crucial compo nent to the observation of opposite 

voltages across the channel. In particular, it has been reported in thin Pb films that constrictions 

can create local hot spots for rapid vortex nucleation and bunched transport 7. Furthermore, i n

quantum transport 9, voltage contacts encroaching into a conducting channel perturb current flow 

and cause invasive effects 34 . To explore such effects, we fabricated a BSCCO device with three 

different contact geometries (“3 -in -1 device”) – non -invasive, invasive, and collinear , as shown in 

Figure 3a. The thickness of the 3 -in -1 device is 72 ±2.9 nm. The non -invasive region has small 

tab -like extensions of the superconducting material protruding away from the channel where the 

contacts are made. The region with invasive contacts is like the device in  Figure 1, a standard Hall 

bar geometry made on exfoliated flakes of 2D materials . T he collinear contacts spread across the 9

entire width of the device and emulate the extreme case of invasiveness. A s uperconducting 

transi tion ( 𝑇 𝑐 = 87 K) is seen in all parts of the device. In the experiment, we inject DC current at 

A1 , ground C3 , and measure longitudinal differential DC voltages at various combinations of 

intermediate contacts . Above 50 K (light blue) , all voltages in  Figure 3 b-e show positive slopes 

as a function of current . The voltages measured with the non -invasive contacts above 𝐼 𝑐 = 0.2 mA 

on both side s of the channel , Figure 3b, are an order of magnitude low er than the invasive contacts 

(< 4 μV) and always show positive slopes , i.e., 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 = 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1. The invasive contacts , Figure 3c,

show 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 below 50 K, consistent with behavior seen in the irregularly shaped BSCCO 

flakes reported earlier Error! Reference source not found. . The observation in the invasive region 

of the device is supported by additional results from single ended voltage experiments 

(supplemental Figure S 7) and series resistance analysis ( supplemental Figure S 8) in the invasive 

region. Negative Hall resistance is seen in the invasive region, but not in the non -invasive region 

of the 3 -in 1 device ( supplemental Fig. S 9). 

The collinear contacts are an extreme version of invasiveness and in this device we measure 

two cases in  Figure 3d with 𝐿 ~𝑊 , (B1 -C1 ) and  Figure 3e with 𝐿 < 𝑊 , (C1 -C2). In the first case, 

L~W, the I-V curves are always positively sloped. In the second case, however, below 30 K the 

slope transitions from positive ( 0.7 < |𝐼 𝐷𝐶 | < 0.6 mA) to negative when |𝐼 𝐷𝐶 | < 0.6 mA. The 

length between contacts C1 and C2 is comparable to the length between the invasive voltage 

contacts B2 and B3 (or B5 and B4). The opposite resistance behavior seen in the top invasive 

contacts (B5 -B4) and short channel collinear contacts (C1 -C2) strongly suggests the mechanism 

for negative resistance is related to vortex confinement and edge effects .

A plausible mechanism for the observed voltage -reversal effect is inspired by the Bernoulli 

effect in fluid dynam ics where kinetic and potential energies balance out . Here, we present a

version of the Bernoulli effect caused by moving charge carriers and vortices. When BSCCO in 

the mixed state is driven into the dissipati ve regime by applying large currents , the reba lancing of 

kinetic and potential energies results in local Bernoulli potential s (ΦB) 11,12,35 . In equilibrium , the 

Bernoulli potential is, 

ΦB(𝑥 , 𝑦 ) = −𝑛 𝑟 

1

2𝑞 𝑚 ∗|Σ𝒗 (𝑥 , 𝑦 )|2 Eq. 110 

Here , 𝑞 is the charge constant, 𝑛 𝑟 is the ratio of superconducting density to the normal state carrier 

density as described above , 𝑚 ∗ = 4𝑚 𝑒 is the effective mass of carriers 36 and Σ𝒗 (𝑥 , 𝑦 ) is the sum 

of velocities from carrier transport ( 𝒗 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 ) and vort ex motion (𝒗 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑥 ).

To explain our proposed mechanism , we have generated a detailed schematic of a BSCCO 

device with the various particles, forces, parameters, and coordinate systems indicated (Figure 

4a). We will refer to this figure in the following discussion. The device has a pair of invasive 

voltage contacts (gold) along the top and bottom edges . A transport current (𝑱 ) is sent along +𝑥 ̂ .

It is know n that c onstrictions 7 and p eriodic indentations 10,37,38 can amplify vortex bunching and 

rapid transport. The invasive contacts in our BSCCO devices create edge indentations and will 

therefore increase current crowding. The surrounding areas then become hotspots for vortex 

nucleation. Above critical current, t he transport velocity of carriers is dominated by the gap 

velocity ( 𝑣 𝑔𝑎𝑝 = 1.76 × 10 4) from breaking Cooper pairs 39 . A n external perpendicular magnetic 

field (𝑩 ) along +𝑧 ̂ produces anti -clockwise vortices (mixed state) in the BSCCO that move when 

the Lorentz force (𝑭 𝑳 = 𝑱 × 𝜙 0𝑧 ̂ ) exceeds the pinning force . Here, 

o is the magnetic flux through 

a single vortex . Vortices move towards −𝑦 ̂ with Lorentz velocity 𝒗 𝑳 , overcome viscous drag ,40 

and experience a Magnus force leading to a longitudinal electric field 𝑬 = −𝒗 𝑳 × 𝑩 . Note that 

transverse vortex motion has been recently been imaged by SQUID -on -tip techniques 7. Reversing 

the magnetic field also reverses the Lorentz force . Therefore , the electric field is not changed ,

explain ing why the sign of measured voltages does not change with reversing field direction. 

Vortices accumulate towards the bottom edge and collectively have a circulation velocity. 

At the top edge, the transport velocity and vortex circulation are in opposite dir ection s and partially 

cancel s, 𝒗 𝑡𝑜𝑝 ≈ 𝒗 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 − 𝒗 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑥 . The vortex circulation at the bottom edge is along the 

transport current and adds, 𝒗 𝑏𝑜𝑡 ≈ 𝒗 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 + 𝒗 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑥 . The reduced velocity at the top edge 

results in a net positive Bernoulli potential and vice versa at the bottom edge. Note, to represent 

the modulations to the vortex velocities created by the contacts, we introduce a sinusoidal factor. 

The electric field corresponding to the Bernoulli potentials is 𝑬 = −∆Φ𝐵 . Detailed description s of 

the forces and velocities used to then simulate the Bernoulli potential are in the supplemental 

material , Fig. S10 .11 

Substituting the velocity terms from diss ipative transport and modulated vortex motion 

around the contacts (supplement) into Eq. 1, we quantitatively map the Bernoulli potentials ,

Figure 4(b). The invasive , rectangular contacts ( yellow ) have an overlap width of 5 μm into the 

channel. Their sharp Gaussian potentials are included in the calculation for completeness. The 

calculation shows bunched potentials appearing at the invasive contacts on the right at +5 μm. 

From this map, we note the differential voltage along the bottom is 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 = 68 .0 μV and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 =

−68 .7 μV and closely repr oduces the experimental finding ( 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1). 

Figure 4. (a) The schematic shows vortices accumulating along the bottom edge when a current ( 𝐽 ) is 

injected along +x in a BSCCO Hall bar device with invasive contacts placed in an external perpendicular 

magnetic field ( 𝐵 ⊥). Above critical current, the Cooper pairs (CP) separate into unpaired quasiparticles 

traveling at the gap velocity . Vortices rapidly nucleate around the invasive contacts . A Lorentz force 𝐹 𝐿 

pushes them down towards -y. At high currents and magnetic fields, the transverse vortex flow appears 12 

like streams (white curved lines) to the bottom contacts. The ensemble of vortices piling up at bottom 

have a circulation velocity that adds to the net transport velocity at the top (subtracts at the bottom ) and 

create the Bernoulli potential . (b) Using the model described in the main text, the calculated two -

dimensional potential Φtotal = Φ𝐵 + Φ𝑐𝑜𝑛𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑠 and electric field profile 𝐸 = −ΔΦ𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 for a device 

(length= 20 μm, width = 25 μm, thickness = 50 nm) with similar dimensions to experiment. The 

separation between contacts is 10 μm. 

The model described here is a simplified vector model to show Bernoulli potentials can 

arise in a BSCCO Hall bar device with invasive contacts. In contrast, we expect the modulat ion 

to the circulation velocity of the vortex ensemble to be negligible when t he contacts are non -

invasive. This would explain why we do not see negative longitudinal voltages in experiment for 

non -invasive Hall bar devices. Lastly, short channel collinear contacts create boundaries where 

vortices are trapped. This can create a larg e circulating current of the vortex ensemble leading to 

an overall negative Bernoulli potential. Detailed finite -element analysis paired with time -

dependent Ginzburg -Landau equations are required to completely model all the non -equilibrium 

transport dynami cs observed here. 

The superconducting diode effect 16 and Josephson diode effect 18,20 are pivotal 

experiments showcasing the n on -reciprocal transport with respect to changing current direction 17 

in BSCCO . Our work adds to this canon and displays spatially resolved opposite edge resistances 

in BSCCO devices due to opposite Bernoulli potentials and particle -hole symmetry breaking. 

Invasive voltage contacts separated by short distances (< 10 μm) create ratchet potentials and 

confinement 10,37 . Regions surrounding the invasive contact become hot -spots for nucleating 

vortices. The motion of vortice s relative to dissipative carriers causes rebalancing of potentials 

near the contacts, resulting in negative resistance along one edge. Future work on exfoliated 

BSCCO and other layered superconductors should consider these effects by measuring the 

longitu dinal voltages along both sides of Hall bar devices. Optionally, using non -invasive 

voltage contacts may alleviate negative resistances from vortex -flow Bernoulli potentials. 

# Conclusion 

In t his wor k, we characterized Hall bar devices of BSCCO and found the longitudinal 

voltages measured on either side of the Hall bar have opposite signs ( 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≅ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1) when the 13 

supplied current exceed s the critical current, i.e., 𝐼 > 𝐼 𝑐 . The results are reproducible in multiple 

devices of exfoliated BSCCO flakes (50 to 70 nm thickness) . We propose th at vortex flow across 

invasive contacts induce s a Bernoull i potential that creates the observed opposite longitudinal 

voltages. The effect is observed in out -of -plane and in -plane magnetic fields, suggesting both 

pancake vortices and Josephson vortices can cause this effect. Additionally, through Hall 

measurements we detect charge carriers changing sign with magnetic field as evide nce for particle -

hole symmetry breaking, likely in pancake vortices. The observations emphasize the role of 

invasive contacts becoming nucleation centers for bunched vortex motion in devices of 

unconventional superconductors 41 . This effect can be harnessed to create negative resistors and 

low -power voltage inverters for superconducting logic where naturally asynchronous 𝜋  

> 2

sources 

may be needed. 

Author Contributions 

G.G . grew the BSCCO crystals. S.J . noticed the effect, conceived the experiments, and 

fabricated the devices . S.J . measured the devices with assistance from G.S . A.F . and A.H .

supervised the experiments. S.J . formulated the explanation and drafted the manuscript with 

input from A.F., A.H, and S.W.L . All authors contributed to the final version of the manuscript. 

Ackn owledgements 

We thank the clean room staff at LPS – K. T. Kim for assistance in fabrication, C. Walsh and 

T. Kirlew for equipment support . We also acknowledge the contributions of colleagues Dr. N. 

Smith, Dr. V. Sharma, & Dr. S.T. Le for discussions and assistance in the lab. 

We appreciate discussions with Prof. J . U. Lee , Dr. M . J. Balakan, Prof. S. Ulloa and M.A.M. 

Ramirez , and Prof. E. Zeldov .

Funding Acknowledgement 

The work at Brookhaven was funded by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) the Office 

of Basic Energy Sciences, under Contract No. DE -SC0012704 .

Data Availability 

All relevant data is already presented in the manuscript. Raw data will be made available upon 

request t o the corresponding authors. 14 

References 

1. Rhoderick, E. H. & Wilson, E. M. Current Distribution in Thin Superconducting Films. Nature 194 , 1167 –1168 

(1962). 

2. Broom, R. F. & Rho derick, E. H. Studies of the Intermediate State in Thin Superconducting Films. Proc. Phys. 

Soc. 79 , 586 (1962). 

3. Brandt, E. H. & Indenbom, M. Type -II -superconductor strip with current in a perpendicular magnetic field. 

Phys. Rev. B 48 , 12893 –12906 (1993) .

4. Zeldov, E., Clem, J. R., McElfresh, M. & Darwin, M. Magnetization and transport currents in thin 

superconducting films. Phys. Rev. B 49 , 9802 –9822 (1994). 

5. Talantsev, E. F., Pantoja, A. E., Crump, W. P. & Tallon , J. L. Current distribution across type II 

superconducting films: a new vortex -free critical state. Sci. Rep. 8, 1716 (2018). 

6. Talantsev, E. F., Crump, W. P. & Tallon, J. L. Universal scaling of the self -field critical current in 

superconductors: from s ub -nanometre to millimetre size. Sci. Rep. 7, 10010 (2017). 

7. Embon, L. et al. Imaging of super -fast dynamics and flow instabilities of superconducting vortices. Nat. 

Commun. 8, 85 (2017). 

8. Beidenkopf, H. et al. Interplay of Anisotropy and Disorder in t he Doping -Dependent Melting and Glass 

Transitions of Vortices in Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ . Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 , 167004 (2007). 

9. Datta, S. Electronic Transport in Mesoscopic Systems . (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1995). 

doi:10.1017/CBO9780511805776. 

10. Porrati, F., Pokusinskyi, A. O., Barth, S., Huth, M. & Dobrovolskiy, O. V. Vortex Ratchet Effect in a NbC Strip 

With a Periodic Edge Indentation. Small Methods 9, e01430 (2025). 

11. Adkins, C. J. Bernoulli Potentials in Superconductors. Phys. Rev. Lett. 21 , 76 –78 (1968). 

12. Rickayzen, G. Bernoulli potentials in superconductors. J. Phys. C Solid State Phys. 2, 1334 (1969). 

13. Lipavský, P. et al. Bernoulli potential in type -I and weak type -II superconductors. III. Electrostatic potential 

above the vortex la ttice. Phys. Rev. B 71 , 024526 (2005). 

14. Yu, Y. et al. High -temperature superconductivity in monolayer Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ . Nature 575 , 156 –163 (2019). 

15. Zhao, S. Y. F. et al. Sign -Reversing Hall Effect in Atomically Thin High -Temperature Bi 2.1 Sr 1.9 CaCu 2.0 O8+δ 

Superconductors. Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 247001 (2019). 

16. Qi, S. et al. High -temperature field -free superconducting diode effect in high -Tc cuprates. Nat. Commun. 16 ,

531 (2025). 

17. Tian, W. et al. Probing the Fine Symmetry Breaking in High -Temperature Superconductor Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ 

with Angle -Resolved Nonreciprocal Transport. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 17 , 68074 –68082 (2025). 

18. Zhao, S. Y. F. et al. Time -reversal symmetry breaking superconductivity between twisted cuprate 

superconductors. Science 382 , 1422 –1427 (2023). 

19. Mercado, A., Sahoo, S. & Franz, M. High -Temperature Majorana Zero Modes. Phys. Rev. Lett. 128 , 137002 

(2022). 

20. Ghosh, S. et al . High -temperature Josephson diode. Nat. Mater. 23 , 612 –618 (2024). 

21. Jois, S., Lado, J. L., Gu, G., Li, Q. & Lee, J. U. Andreev Reflection and Klein Tunneling in High -Temperature 

Superconductor -Graphene Junctions. Phys. Rev. Lett. 130 , 156201 (2023). 

22 . Jois, S., Lado, J. L., Gu, G., Li, Q. & Lee, J. U. Coupling of Klein -Andreev resonant states in Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x -

graphene -Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x devices. Phys. Rev. B 113 , 035410 (2026). 

23. Jois, S. The Transport Properties of High -Temperature Superconductor/Gr aphene Junctions. (SUNY 

Polytechnic Institute, Albany, 2023). 15 

24. Wang, S. et al. Oscillating paramagnetic Meissner effect and Berezinskii -Kosterlitz -Thouless transition in 

underdoped Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ . Natl. Sci. Rev. 11 , nwad249 (2024). 

25. Zang, Q., Xu, Z ., Luo, H., Wang, H. -B. & Wen, H. -H. Sign reversal of the Hall effect in the flux flow region of 

Bi 2+x Sr 2-xCuO 6+δ . Phys. Rev. B 109 , 174501 (2024). 

26. Reymond, S. et al. Current -induced highly dissipative domains in high -Tc thin films. Phys. Rev. B 66 , 01 4522 

(2002). 

27. Jindal, A. et al. Growth of high -quality Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ whiskers and electrical properties of resulting 

exfoliated flakes. Sci. Rep. 7, 1 –8 (2017). 

28. Safar, H., Gammel , P. L., Bishop, D. J., Mitzi, D. B. & Kapitulnik, A. SQUID picovoltometry of single crystal 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ : Observation of the crossover from high -temperature Arrhenius to low -temperature vortex -

glass behavior. Phys. Rev. Lett. 68 , 2672 –2675 (1992). 

29. Lee, J. U., Nordman, J. E. & Hohenwarter, G. Josephson vortex flow in superconducting single -crystal Bi 

2Sr2CaCu2Ox. Appl. Phys. Lett. 67 , 1471 (1995). 

30. Hashimoto, M. et al. Particle –hole symmetry breaking in the pseudogap state of Bi2201. Nat. Phys. 6, 414 –418 

(2010). 

31. Tinkham, M. Introduction to Superconductivity: Second Edition . (Dover Publications, 2004). 

32. Kivelson, S. A. & Rokhsar, D. S. Bogoliubov quasiparticles, spinons, and spin -charge decoupling in 

superconductors. Phys. Rev. B 41 , 11693 –11696 (1990). 

33. Dorsey, A. T. Vortex motion and the Hall effect in type -II superconductors: A time -dependent Ginzburg -

Landau theory approach. Phys. Rev. B 46 , 8376 –8392 (1992). 

34. Gluschke, J. G. et al. Impact of invasive metal probes on Hall measurement s in semiconductor nanostructures. 

Nanoscale 12 , 20317 –20325 (2020). 

35. Bok, J. & Klein, J. ‘Electric Fields’ in Superconductors. Phys. Rev. Lett. 20 , 660 –662 (1968). 

36. Orlando, M. T. D., Rouver, A. N., Rocha, J. R. & Cavichini, A. S. Correlation among the effective mass ( m⁎), 

λab and Tc of superconducting cuprates in a Casimir energy scenario. Phys. Lett. A 382 , 1486 –1491 (2018). 

37. Plourde, B. L. T. Nanostructured Superconductors With Asymmetric Pinning Potentials: Vortex Ratchets. IEEE 

Trans. Appl. S upercond. 19 , 3698 –3714 (2009). 

38. De Souza Silva, C. C., Van De Vondel, J., Morelle, M. & Moshchalkov, V. V. Controlled multiple reversals of 

a ratchet effect. Nature 440 , 651 –654 (2006). 

39. Vishik, I. M. et al. Doping -Dependent Nodal Fermi Velocity of the High -Temperature Superconductor 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ Revealed Using High -Resolution Angle -Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy. Phys. Rev. 

Lett. 104 , 207002 (2010). 

40. Bardeen, J. & Stephen, M. J. Theory of the Motion of Vortices in Superconductors. Phys. R ev. 140 , A1197 –

A1207 (1965). 

41. Wei, M., Xiang, L., Xu, F., Wang, B. & Wang, J. Unconventional Hall Effect in Gapless Superconductors: 

Transverse Supercurrent Converted from Normal Current. Preprint at 

https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2505.23278 (2025). 

42. Wen, J. S. et al. Large Bi -2212 single crystal growth by the floating -zone technique. J. Cryst. Growth 310 ,

1401 –1404 (2008). 16 

# Supplementary Information 

Methods 

The optimal doped Bi -2212 single crystals with 𝑇 𝑐 = 91 K was grown by using a floating 

zone method 42 . BSCCO crystals are cleaved and exfoliated on 285 nm silicon dioxide wafers in 

an inert argon -filled glovebox (<0.1 ppm O 2 and H20). The wafers are pre -patterned with an 

alignment mark array to help with recording the position of target flakes. Flakes of interest are 

identified after scanning the entire chip under a microscope of the customized 2D Factory system 

and generating a stitched image. Candidate flakes of thickness ranging from 50 to 70 nm are 

selected for Hall bar devices, like the one shown in  Figure 1a. The devices are fabricated in a

cleanroom using direct -write laser lithography within the same day. First, the contact pads are 

made with Ti (10 nm) and Au (50 nm) around the target flake. Then, Ag (10 nm) and Au (50 nm) 

are used for Ohmic contacts to BS CCO. Additional information can be found in previous work 21 –

> 23

.

The finished devices are tested for contact resistance. Then the wafers are cleave d, mounted 

on a 16 -pin chip carrier and gently wedge bonded with Al wire. These are immediately loaded 

into an Oxford Teslatron ( 𝑇 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 = 1.7 K, 𝐵 𝑚𝑎𝑥 = ±12 Tesla) for measurement. The data is 

collected using a Nanonis Tramea system with two voltage pre -amplifiers (4 + 4 channels) with 

up to 1000X gain, capable of doing single -ended or differential AC lock -in or DC voltage 

measurements. A voltage driven SRS 580 current source (1 mA/V) is used to supply the DC 

current. The device is grounded to the SRS 57 0 current pre -amplifier which measures the current 

signal in the device to voltage (1 mA/V). All measurement electronics are grounded together. We 

verified the effect is reproducible in another cryostat ( 𝑇 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒 = 3 Kelvin, 𝐵 𝑚𝑎𝑥 = ±1 Tesla) using 

Keithl ey 2182 nanovoltmeters. 

Calculations were done with the help of Google Gemini Pro to construct the initial python 

script . The code was tested and corrected to represent experimental findings. 17 

Reversing Current direction 

For consistency, we check that the measured voltages reverse slope by changing direction 

of current bias in  Figure S 1. The schematics show the circuit for +I src (Figure S 1 (a)) and -Isrc 

(Figure S 1 (b)). The corresponding data in  Figure S 1 (c) show s the measured voltages 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 =

−𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 for sourcing +I src (blue). Reversing the injection of current to -Isrc , reverses the slopes of 

these voltages (red). 

Figure S 1. Schematics of connections to source +I src (a) and -Isrc (b), and measure fixed longitudinal 

voltages 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 shown in (c). We observe the measured voltag es above critical current change 

slope when current direction is reversed. 18 

Critical current below 50 K 

The critical currents from the forward sweep ( -0.5 to +0.5 mA) and reverse sweep (+0.5 to -

0.5 mA) are extracted in the Meissner state for data shown in Figure 1 (d) of the main text. Here 

we reproduce the data below 50 K in  Figure S 2 (a) . From this data we extract the positive 

critical current ( +𝐼 𝑐 ) from the forward sweep and the absolute value of the negative critical 

current ( | − 𝐼 𝑐 |) from the reverse sweep and show i t in (b) . Taking the reading of the current 

when the DC differential voltage reading is < 0.4 μV is criteria for determining the critical 

current. Interestingly, the critical current in the Meissner state peaks between 10 to 20 K, the 

same temperature range when the phase slips (jumps in voltage) are the largest. Lower critical 

currents are seen at the base temperature of 1.7 K in the Meissner state.    

> Figure S 2.a) IV in the low current regime for temperatures 50 K and below, and b) critical current based
> on these measurements.

19 

Transverse resistance & voltage as a function of temperature 

The transverse resistance measured as a function of temperature at differen t magnetic 

fields is shown in  Figure S 3 (a). Here we see the sign reversal of the Hall resistance at ±1 T

first at 𝑇 𝑐 ,𝐵 =0 = 90 K, and then again at 60 K. This region was previously studied in detail [1] 

and attributed to vortex dynamics. The difference between -1.0 T data and +1.0 T data between 

70 to 90 K is due to changes in the natural rate of cooling of the cryostat. The abrupt jump in 

resistance at 20 K is due to the vortex glass tra nsition [2] . In  Figure S 3 (b), the transverse 

voltage vs. I DC sweep taken at different temperatures is shown . Here, we see the slope is positive 

in the normal state between 100 and 90 K and the slope changes to negative between 80 to 60 K.

Below 40 K, we see a positive slop e when 𝐼 𝐷𝐶 ≥ |𝐼 𝑐 | = 0.05 mA to 0.1 mA. When |𝐼 𝐷𝐶 | exceeds 

0.1 mA negative slope is seen again. At 10 and 20 K, we see many steps due to phase slips in the 

critical current like we s ee in the longitudinal voltages. The sign reversal of the slope behavior 

seen in the critical current measurements of the transverse voltage are consistent with 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2

discussed in the main text. This supports the presence of a transverse electric field gradient above 

critical current. The boxed region at low current is enlarged and shown in  Figure S 3 (c) at a few 

temperatures to emphasize the mix of positive and negative slopes appearing in the transverse 

voltage. This sort of anomaly is attributed to invasive contacts on randomly shaped BSCCO 

flake device.       

> Figure S 3.(a) Transverse Resistance vs. Temperature at different magnetic fields. (b) Transverse voltage
> as a function of sweeping I DC . These data go along with the longitudinal data of Figure 1in the main text .
> The boxed region is enlarged and shown in (c) at a few temperatures.

20 

Data from another BSCCO device 

We support the reproducibility of our results by showing data from another BSCCO 

device in which we observed the same behavior. In this device, the BSCCO is 57 ±1.4 nm thick. 

In  Figure S 4 (a) and (b) below, we again see 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≅ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 even at high magnetic fields up to 

±12 T. Both longitudinal voltages regain conventional Ohmic behavior above 60 K, as shown in 

(c) and (d). 

Figure S 4. Panels (a) and (b) show the longitudinal voltages measured in another BSCCO device at base 

temperature T = 1.7 K and different magnetic fields. The same components are shown at fixed fi eld of 

+1.0 T at different temperatures in (c) and (d). This figure support s the reproducibility of the behavior 

described in this work. 21 

In plane magnetic field 

To support to the out -of -plane magnetic field data in the main text, in  Figure S 5 we 

show the voltages do not change sign as a function of in -plane magnetic field ( 𝐵 ∥) applied at an 

angle of 45 ° with respect to the supplied current. The longitudinal and transverse voltages are 

shown in  Figure S 5 (a -b) and (c) respectively. 

Figure S 5. Color plots of the longitudinal voltages 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1 in (a) and 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 (b), and transverse voltage 𝑉 𝑥𝑦 

in (c) measured as a function of sweeping the current from -0.5 mA to +0.5 mA and stepping the in -plane 

magnetic field ( 𝐵 ∥) from -2.0 to +2.0 T. 22 

Hall Resistance in the n ormal state at 100 K 

Measurements above T c show our sample has a metallic behavior , Figure S 6. The Hall 

resistance (anti -symmetrized) of a BSCCO device measured at 100 K is shown below. The fit 

using t he Hall equations yield a carrier density ( 𝑛 𝑠 ℎ) and mobility ( 𝜇 ), given in the inset. 

𝑛 𝑠 ℎ = 1

𝑞 𝑒 

𝑑 𝑅 𝐻𝑎𝑙𝑙 

𝑑 𝐵 ⊥

Eq. S1 

𝜇 = 1

𝑅 𝑠 ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑡 

× 𝑑 𝑅 𝐻𝑎𝑙𝑙 

𝑑𝐵  Eq. S2 

Figure S 6. Anti -symmetrized Hall resistance of a BSSCO device measured at 100 K showing 

conventional hole -type carriers at 100 K. The dark green line is the fit to extract sheet carrier density 

(𝑛 𝑠 ℎ𝑒𝑒𝑡 ) and mobility ( 𝜇 ) shown in the annotation. 23 

Additional Characterization of the 3 -in -1 Device 

1. Si ngle -ended voltage 

In this section we show the mathematical difference of single -ended voltages shows the 

same observation of opposite signs above the critical current as the differential voltages 

presented in the main text . In  Figure S 7 (a) , for completeness, we show the two -terminal 

voltage measured across the source and ground leads while sweeping the DC current from -0.7 to 

+0.7 mA. The single -ended voltages measured on t he invasive Hall bar voltage contacts B2 to 

B5 , Figure S 7 (b) , are all nearly half the two -terminal voltage . These single -ended voltages 

were measured si multaneously using the Nanonis Tramea system and are measured with respect 

to a common ground . The current pre -amplifier converts the measured current signal to voltage 

(1mA/V), which is also measured by the Nanonis. This is because most of the voltage dro p

occurs at the source (A1) and ground (C3) contacts which have much larger resistance (~400 Ω)

compared to the channel resistance (< 1 Ω). Nonetheless, the large precision of these single -

ended voltages enables us to take the mathematical difference and verify the main result. The 

difference 𝑉 𝐵 2 − 𝑉 𝐵 3 and 𝑉 𝐵 5 − 𝑉 𝐵 4 shown in  Figure S 7 (c) closely resemble the measured 

differential voltage in Fig . 3 (c) of the main text. This test eliminates contributions from multiple 

connections and wiring errors. This test also eliminates the possibility of artifacts from 

differential voltage amplifier s. 24 

Figure S 7. (a) Two -terminal voltage measured across the source (A1) and ground (C3) contacts while 

also measuring the single -ended voltages on B2 to B5 for the device shown in (b) at base temperature of 

1.7 K in a perpendicular magnetic field of +1 T. (c) The mathematic al difference of single -ended voltages 

shown in (b) give s us the same observation discussed in the main text. 

2. Series resistance analysis 

Another control to support the result in the main text is treat ing the invasive Hall bar 

region as a series of two resi stors under constant current . Knowing the voltage change over the 

first and second resistors, it becomes straightforward to calculate the voltage change between the 

first and second resistor, i.e., 𝑉 𝑥 1−𝑥 2 = 𝑉 ℎ𝑖𝑔 ℎ−𝑥 2 − 𝑉 ℎ𝑖𝑔 ℎ−𝑥 1. The experimental resu lts for this 

hypothesis are discussed below. 

The optical image of the device with current source at A1 and ground at C3 is in  Figure 

S 8 (a). We first measure the DC differential voltage B2 -B3 and then measure B5 -B4 while 

sweeping the DC current from -0.7 to +0.7 mA . Both are shown together in  Figure S 8 (b). This 

result is comparable to the low -temperature data in Fig . 3 (c) of the main text. Then , while 

keeping the current path the same, we connect the voltage -high to B1 and vary the voltage -low 

connection from B2 to B5 , Figure S 8 (c), and measure these DC diffe rential voltages for the 

same current sweep in  Figure S 8 (b). While using a pair of voltage contacts, all other contacts 

were set to float. The first surprising result here is the slope in the normal region is already sign 

reversed with respect to B1, i.e., there is a large negative potential somewhere between B1 to C1 

despite positively forced current. This negative potential region is the s ame Bernoulli potential 

described in the main text. Here we can already see 𝑉 𝐵 1−𝐵 2 > 𝑉 𝐵 1−𝐵 3 and 𝑉 𝐵 1−𝐵 4 > 𝑉 𝐵 1−𝐵 5.25 

Figure S 8. Series resistance analysis. (a) Optical image of device. The legend in plots (b) to (d) 

corre sponds to the contact pair used for measuring the differential DC longitudinal voltage connections. 

The series resistance analysis for the data from (c) is shown in (e). This is directly comparable to (b). 

Similarly, the analysis for the data in (d) is sho wn in (f) and is also comparable to (b). 

Similarly, in  Figure S 8 (d) we repeat this measurement by varying the voltage -high 

connection from B2 to B5 and fixing voltage -low connection on C1 . Here positive slopes are 

seen in the normal region for all voltage s and 𝑉 𝐵 2−𝐶 1 > 𝑉 𝐵 3−𝐶 1 and 𝑉 𝐵 4−𝐶 1 > 𝑉 𝐵 5−𝐶 1. The series 

resistance analysis discussed above is applied to data in  Figure S 8 (c) and (d) and the 

corresponding results are shown in  Figure S 8Figure S 8 (e) and (f). These are both compar able 

to the data in  Figure S 8 (b), further supporting the data in the main text . This test eliminat es 

contributions from multiple connections and wiring erro rs and indicates the existence of a local 

negative electric potential in the region of invasive contacts. 26 

3. Hall Measurements 

Here we show the Hall measurements taken on the 3-in -1 device below 80 K with a 

constant current of +0.3 mA injected between A1 to C3. The transverse resistance is measured in 

the invasive region using contacts B3 -B4 ( Figure S 9 (a) -top), B2 -B5 ( Figure S 9 (a) -middle )

and as well as at the non -invasive region with A4 -A5 ( Figure S 9 (a) -bottom). The well -defined 

geometry of the device alleviates longitudinal contributions that can bleed into the transverse 

component and cause abrupt jumps seen in the Hall data on t he raw flakes ( Fig. 2 (c) of main 

text). The non -invasive contacts ( Figure S 9 (a)-bottom panel) do not show linear changes in 

resistance with magnetic field, which is consistent with the low er signals seen in longitudinal 

voltages seen in this region (main text, Fig . 3(b) ). The carrier densities (calculated using Eq. S1 )

in the invasive Hall bar region shows R B2 -B5 (Figure S 9 (b) -bottom ) is larger than R B3 -B4 

(Figure S 9 (b )-top ). This could be because the B2 -B5 contacts are located closer to the current 

injection and more carriers are available here . Whereas the dissipative region between B2 -B3 (or 

B5 -B4) hosting vortex flow and Bernoulli potentials leads to a decrease in available carriers 

downstream, resulting in lower carrier density by a factor of two in R B3 -B4 .      

> Figure S 9. Hall resistances on the 3 -in -1 device at different temperatures below 80 K as a function of
> sweeping field (a) using a fixed DC current of +0.3 mA. The carrier densities for the data in top two
> panels is shown in (b) .

27 28 

Derivation of Bernoulli pot ential map 

In this section, we provide the basis for the calculation of Bernoulli potentials, assuming 

the conductor is a type -II superconductor, and the device channel has a thickness 50 nm, width 

25 μm, and length 20 μm. The schematic in  Figure S 10  aids the description that follows. 

Figure S 10 . Schematic representation of forces acting on a vortex lattice due to an applied current 𝐽 . The 

vortices are grouped together and treated as an ensemble to estimate the velocity of the circulating current 

(𝑣 𝑐𝑖𝑟𝑐 ) along the extremities. 

The transport velocity is governed by the drift velocitie s of superconducting Cooper pairs 

and excited Bogoliubov quasiparticles. Additionally, because we are looking at the dissipative 

state we must include the pair -breaking (or gap) velocity. For a transport current density 𝐽 below 

the critical current densit y 𝐽 𝑐 , the superconducting condensate has a drift velocity 𝑣 𝑠 = 𝐽 (𝐽 <𝐽 𝑐 ) 

> 𝑛 𝑠 𝑒

.

And when 𝐽 > 𝐽 𝑐 , the Bogoliubov quasiparticles have a drift velocity 𝑣 𝑞 = 𝐽 (𝐽 >𝐽 𝑐 ) 

> 𝑛 𝑟 𝑒

. As discussed 

in the Hall analysis, 𝑛 𝑟 ≈ 10 % is the ratio of carrier densities at low temperatures ( 𝑛 𝑠 =

2 × 10 15 cm -2, Fig. 2d of main text ) and at 100 K ( 𝑛 = 19 × 10 15 cm -2, supplement S6) . From 

the experiment al conditions above, for a charge current I < | ± 0.5| mA , the drift velocities of 

the Cooper pairs and Bogoliubov quasiparticles will be minimal, 𝑣 𝑠 < 8.3 m/s and 𝑣 𝑞 = 0.8 m/s ,

respectively. However, there is another velocity we need to consider in the dissipative state. T he 

gap velocity (𝑣 𝑔𝑎𝑝 ) [3] , associated with the breaking of a Cooper pair is much greate r than the 

drift velocities, with 𝑣 𝑔𝑎𝑝 = Δ

> 𝑘 𝑓

= 1.76 × 10 4 m/s, where Δ = 40 meV is the pseudogap energy, 

𝑘 𝑓 = 2𝑚 𝑒 𝑣 𝑓 is the Fermi momentum, and 𝑣 𝑓 ≈ 2 × 10 5 m/s is the Fermi velocity of the 29 

constituents in a Cooper pair. Therefore, due to significant dissipative transport, the gap velocity 

dominates. T he total transport velocit y is approximately 𝑣 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 = 𝑣 𝑠 + 𝑣 𝑞 + 𝑣 𝑔𝑎𝑝 ≈ 𝑣 𝑔𝑎𝑝 .

In the mixed state , several pancake Abrikosov vortices [4] nucl eate in the BSCCO sample 

pinned with force 𝐹 𝑝 . Each vortex permits a single flux quantum vector 𝝓 𝟎 = ℎ 

> 2𝑞
> 𝑩
> |𝑩 |

of magnitude 

2.067 × 10 −15 Wb along 𝑩 . As the external field increases above the Meissner state , the vortex 

density increases linearly 𝑛 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡 = 𝐵 

> 𝜙 0

and the vortex lattice spacing is approximately 𝑎 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡 ≈

> 1
> √𝑛 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡

[5] . At 𝐵 ⊥ = 1 T, the estimated 𝑛 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡 = 4.8 × 10 10 cm -2 and 𝑎 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡 ≈ 45 nm. The vortex 

circulating velocity can be estimated by 𝑣 𝑐𝑖𝑟𝑐 = ℏ

> 2𝑚 ∗𝑟

, where 𝑟 is the radius from the vortex core. 

In the vortex lattice at 1 T, the average circulating velocity of an ensemble of vortices ( 𝑟 =

𝑎 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡 /2) is 𝑣 𝑐𝑖𝑟𝑐 ≈ 637 m/s. 

The DC current through the sample induces a Lorentz force 𝑭 𝑳 = 𝐽 × 𝝓 𝟎 on the pancake 

vortices , causing them to drift perpendicular to the transport current when 𝑭 𝑳 ≥ 𝑭 𝒑 , where Fp is 

the pinning force on the vortices. Vortices drifting with a velocity 𝒗 𝑳 , will encounter a viscous 

drag 𝑭 𝑫 = −𝜂 𝒗 𝑳 = −(𝑭 𝑳 − 𝑭 𝒑 ) [6] , where 𝜂 is the viscosity coefficient . It is related to the 

second critical field 𝐵 𝑐 2 = 100 T and normal state resistivity ( 𝜌 𝑛 ≈ 160 μΩ cm ) by, 𝜂 =

> |𝜙 0|𝐵 𝑐 2
> 𝜌 𝑛

= 1.26 𝑒 − 7 Pa s. Anti -clockwise vortices mo ving towards −𝑦 experience a Magnus 

force 𝑭 𝑴 = −𝑛 𝑠 𝑞 (𝒗 𝑳 × 𝝓 𝟎 ) which results in a total electric field 𝑬 = −𝒗 𝑳 × 𝑩 = −ΔΦ along 

the longitudinal direction. Reversing 𝑩 , also reverses 𝒗 𝑳 and thus the 𝑬 is unchanged . Th is is a 

basic reason behind why th e measured longitudinal voltages do not change sign when the 

magnetic field is reversed. However, to capture the experimental result ( 𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,2 ≈ −𝑉 𝑥𝑥 ,1) we need 

to implement the circulation velocity of the vortex ensemble and modulations due to device 

geometry to calculate the Bernoulli potential and corresponding electric field. 

The potential difference (Φ) created by the Magnus force gives rise to the Bernoulli 

potential we measure by solv ing for the independent velociti es at the top and bottom edges of the 

device . In the mixed state at high currents, vortices move from +𝑦 edge to the −𝑦 with a 

velocity ( 𝑣 𝐿 = 5.7 m/s). The stream of vortices encounter accumulated vortices along the bottom 

edge and enter the contacts at a reduced velocity ( −𝑣 𝐿 /2). The vortex bunching around the 30 

periodic indentations created by invasive contacts create a sinusoidal modulation with an 

amplitude (A) and phase 2𝜋𝑥 /𝐿 , where 𝐿 is the device length . The amplitude here is set to be the 

rati o of the total contact overlap width ( 2 × 5 μm) over the device width (𝑊 = 25 μm) . Lastly, 

the contribution from the Magnus force acting along the longitudinal direction leads to factors 

(1 − 𝑣 𝐿 ) and ( 1 + 𝑣 𝐿  

> 2

) with respect to the circulation velocities at the top and bottom respectively. 

All these modifications result in the top and bottom v elocity terms :

𝑣 𝑡𝑜𝑝 (𝑥 ) = 𝑣 𝑐𝑖𝑟𝑐 (1 + 𝐴 sin (2𝜋𝑥 

𝐿 )) (1 − 𝑣 𝐿 )

𝑣 𝑏𝑜𝑡 (𝑥 ) = 𝑣 𝑐𝑖𝑟𝑐 (1 + 𝐴 sin (2𝜋𝑥 

𝐿 )) (1 + 𝑣 𝐿 

2 )

Eq. S1 

The longitudinal velocities are multipl ied by corresponding spatial scaling factors 𝑤 𝑡𝑜𝑝 =

1 𝑡𝑜 0 and 𝑤 𝑏𝑜𝑡 = 1 − 𝑤 𝑡𝑜𝑝 to account for the reduction in magnitude of vortex velocities in the 

middle of the ensemble . The resulting longitudinal component of vortex velocity is 

𝑣 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑥 (𝑥 ) = 𝑣 𝑡𝑜𝑝 (𝑥 )𝑤 𝑡𝑜𝑝 + 𝑣 𝑏𝑜𝑡 (𝑥 )𝑤 𝑏𝑜𝑡  Eq. S2 

Since the transport velocities are also along the longitudinal direction, the net 

longitudinal velocities are ∑𝑣 (𝑥 ) = 𝑣 𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑠𝑝𝑜𝑟𝑡 (𝑥 ) + 𝑣 𝑣𝑜𝑟𝑡𝑒𝑥 (𝑥 ). The transverse component of 

vortex velocity is mainly dictated by the Lorentz component, so 𝑣 (𝑦 ) = 𝑣 𝐿 . The sum of squares 

of the velocity term, (∑𝑣 (𝑥 , 𝑦 ))2 = 𝑣 (𝑥 )2 + 𝑣 (𝑦 )2, is used in the calculation of the Bernoulli 

potential (main text Fig. 4(b) ).

References 

[1] S. Y. F. Zha o et al., Sign -Reversing Hall Effect in Atomically Thin High -Temperature Bi 2.1 Sr 1.9 CaCu 2.0 O8+δ 

Superconductors, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 247001 (2019). 

[2] H. Beidenkopf, T. Verdene, Y. Myasoedov, H. Shtrikman, E. Zeldov, B. Rosenstein, D. Li, and T. Tamegai, 

Interplay of Anisotropy and Disorder in the Doping -Dependent Melting and Glass Transitions of Vortices in 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ , Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 , 167004 (2007). 

[3] I. M. Vishik et al., Doping -Dependent Nodal Fermi Velocity of the High -Temperature Supercond uctor 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+δ Revealed Using High -Resolution Angle -Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy, Phys. Rev. 

Lett. 104 , 207002 (2010). 

[4] E. H. Brandt, Tilted and curved vortices in anisotropic superconducting films, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 6699 (1993). 

[5] E. H. Brandt, The flux -line lattice in superconductors, Rep. Prog. Phys. 58 , 1465 (1995). 

[6] J. Bardeen and M. J. Stephen, Theory of the Motion of Vortices in Superconductors, Phys. Rev. 140 , A1197 

(1965).