Title: Superlinear Temperature-Dependent Resistivity and Structural Phase Transition in BaNi$_2$P$_4$

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.29797v1

Published Time: Wed, 01 Apr 2026 01:09:28 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# Superlinear Temperature-Dependent Resistivity and Structural Phase Transition in BaNi 2P4

E. H. Krenkel, 1, 2, ∗ M. A. Tanatar, 1, 2, † E. I. Timmons, 1, 2, ‡ S. L. Bud’ko, 1, 2 P. C. Canfield, 1, 2 

Qing-Ping Ding, 1 Yuji Furukawa, 1, 2 Lin-Lin Wang, 1 M. Ko´ nczykowski, 3 R. Grasset, 3 J. L. Niedziela, 4

Olivier Delaire, 5 Gayatri Viswanathan, 1, 6 Jian Wang, 7 Kirill Kovnir, 1, 6 and Ruslan Prozorov 1, 2 

> 1

Ames National Laboratory, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA 

> 2

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA 

> 3

Laboratoire des Solides Irradi´ es, CEA/DRF/IRAMIS, ´Ecole Polytechnique, CNRS, Institut Polytechnique de Paris, 91128 Palaiseau, France 

> 4

Nuclear Nonproliferation Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831, USA 

> 5

Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, Department of Physics and Department of Chemistry, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA 

> 6

Department of Chemistry, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA 

> 7

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Wichita State University, Wichita, Kansas 67260, USA 

(Dated: 30 March 2026) The mechanism of anomalous superlinear temperature-dependent resistivity, ρ(T ), in the metallic unconventional clathrate BaNi 2P4 was studied by examining its evolution with artificial disorder induced by low-temperature ( ∼ 20 K) 2.5 MeV electron irradiation. We find a dominant effect of the tetragonal-orthorhombic transition at Ts (∼373 to 378 K, depending on heat cycle rate and direction) on ρ(T ), with standard metallic T −linear resistivity above the transition and anomalous behavior in the orthorhombic phase below. The transition is accompanied by the formation of structural domains and a notable (about 4 K) hysteresis in the magnetization and resistivity measurements, clearly showing its first order character. Matthiessen rule is obeyed both above and below the transition, suggesting negligible changes in the electronic structure. This conclusion is supported by the smooth evolution of the Hall effect through the transition. The Hall number is in good agreement with band structure calculations both above and below the transition. The transition temperature is notably suppressed with electron irradiation. Raman scattering at temperatures above room temperature find softening of local Ba vibration mode in the orthorhombic phase on approaching the transition. 31 P NMR line splits in the orthorhombic phase, suggesting a partial shift of the Ba atom from the central position in the cage. We suggest that local Ba rattling leads to enhanced residual contribution to resistivity in the high temperature tetragonal phase, the decay of which is responsible for the anomalous temperature-dependent resistivity in the orthorhombic phase. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Clathrates are composed of large, cage-like structures which are only weakly coupled to the atoms in the cen-ter of their cages. The central atoms are able to rat-tle incoherently from each other, stymieing the forma-tion of long-wavelength phonons which carry much of the thermal energy of the material, see [1, 2] for a re-view. Because of this, clathrate materials have recently attracted much attention as potentially good thermo-electrics [3]. In addition to low thermal conductivity κ,they also possess high electrical conductivity σ, [4] an im-portant combination for a high thermoelectric figure of merit ZT = S2T σ/κ , where S is the Seebeck coefficient. Another attractive feature of clathrates is the tunabil-ity of their structure, with easily-changeable symmetry of the central atom.    

> ∗Current affiliation: Los Alamos National Laboratory
> †Corresponding author: tanatar@ameslab.gov
> ‡Current affiliation: Emerson Innovation Center, Fisher Technol-ogy

In the clathrate material BaNi 2P4, while anomalous thermal behavior with small phonon contribution is ex-pected, there is little in the band structure to suggest that it would not act as a good metal. The Fermi sur-face of BaNi 2P4 suggests a good metallic phase, and the frequencies observed in de Haas-van Alphen oscil-lations are in reasonable agreement with the calculated band structure [4]. Yet the temperature-dependent re-sistivity of this material is quite non-trivial, see Fig. 1. In good metals ρ(T ) follows Bloch-Gr¨ uneisen (BG) the-ory in the form ρ = ρ0 + ρBG , where ρ0 is the scattering based on impurities and ρBG is the scattering from elec-tron scattering on phonons [5]. The form of ρBG is given by 

ρBG ∝ T 5

ΘD

Z θD /20

x5dx 

(ex − 1)(1 − e−x) (1) where Θ D is approximately equal to the Debye temper-ature from heat capacity measurements [6]. When this function is evaluated using the appropriate approxima-tions, it becomes clear that its behavior is approximately linear above 1 /5Θ D . This is experimentally borne out in 

> arXiv:2603.29797v1 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] 31 Mar 2026

2many metals, as shown in Fig. 1. However, for BaNi 2P4,this is notably violated. As shown in Fig. 1 and pre-viously in [4], the resistivity of BaNi 2P4 is superlinear up to very high temperatures. The Debye tempera-ture of the compound determined from anisotropic dis-placement parameters in X-ray measurements of 237 K and from heat capacity measurements (205 K) [4], sug-gests that T −linear variation should be observed starting from above 50 K or so. Interestingly, this temperature-dependent resistivity is clearly distinct from the normal, nearly linear resistivity as determined on closely related clathrate materials BaCu 2P4 single crystals (right trian-gles in Fig. 1) and SrNi 2P4 [7] and EuNi 2P4 [8] polycrys-talline samples. It is known that BaNi 2P4undergoes a structural phase transition from a high temperature tetragonal (HTT) to a low temperature orthorhombic (LTO) phase at approx-imately 373 K [9]. The transition was initially assigned to the Peierls instability of the electronic system [9]. Later, it was argued that the transition is caused by the energy of the filled states, analogous to a collective Jahn-Teller distortion [10]. As a consequence of the orthorhombic distortion, the sample splits at room temperature into domains, as can be seen in the polarized optical micro-scope image in the left panel of Fig. 2. On warming above the transition temperature, the domains disappear. Considering both the possibility of an anomalous phonon spectrum which can contribute to the anoma-lous temperature-dependent resistivity, and the possible effect of the structural transition on band structure, here we present study of the electronic transport properties          

> FIG. 1. Universal scaling of electrical resistivity of con-ventional metals with the Debye temperature [6]. The plot presents electrical resistivity data for silver, copper and alu-minum using normalized resistivity, ρ/ρ (Θ D), and tempera-ture, T / ΘD, scales. The right triangles show resistivity data for clathrate BaCu 2P4, following generic metallic behavior. Red curve shows the data for BaNi 2P4strongly deviating from the normal metallic temperature dependence.
> FIG. 2. Polarized optics image of the orthorhombic domains in the crystal of BaNi 2P4at room temperature (left panel). Domains are seen as bright stripes crossing through the ter-races on sample surface. On warming to the temperatures (∼450 K) higher that structural transition temperature(376 K), the domains disappear leaving terraces unaffected (right panel).

of BaNi 2P4 single crystals. We use electron irradiation to control the disorder scattering ρ0. We show that the transition does not lead to a notable change in the carrier density as determined from the Hall effect measurements, the validity of the Matthiessen rule and smooth evolution of NMR Knight shift, all suggesting the relation to lo-calized electronic states rather than conduction electron system. Despite this, it strongly affects temperature de-pendent resistivity, with restoration of the T −linear re-sistivity above the transition. We further show that the resistivity above the transition is well described by Bloch-Gr¨ uneisen function with notably higher Debye tempera-ture of about 500 K as suggested in another heat capac-ity measurements [11] and with excess residual resistivity. We attribute this excess residual resistivity to excess con-tribution of rattling Ba atoms. Decay of this contribu-tion below the transition is responsible for the anomalous temperature-dependent resistivity.  

> II. EXPERIMENTAL

All manipulations of starting materials were per-formed in an argon-atmosphere glovebox (<0.5 ppm O2). Reagents were used as received: dendritic Ba pieces (Sigma Aldrich, 99.99%), Cu powder (Alfa Ae-sar, 99.9%), Ni powder (Alfa Aesar, 99.996%), Si powder (Alfa Aesar, 99.99%), red P powder (Alfa Aesar 98.9%), Sn shot (Alfa Aesar, 99.80%), and ultradry BaI 2 beads (Alfa Aesar, 99.999%). Single crystals of BaNi 2P4 were grown using a Seed-Aided Metal Flux method, which produced up to ∼6mm 3-sized single crystals and larger crystal agglomerates [4]. For this technique, the presynthesized single-phase powder of BaNi 2P4 was sprinkled over silica wool and 3kept inside the top, inverted Al 2O3 crucible. The reac-tants, Ba/Ni/P/Sn in 1:2:4:80 molar ratios using 30 g of Sn, were loaded into the bottom Al 2O3 crucible. The sealed ampule was heated from room temperature to 1073 K at a rate of 30 K/h, then kept at this temperature for 240 h. Afterwards, the ampule was cooled down to 873 K over 40 h, annealed for 196 h at this temperature, and then the furnace was turned off. The ampule was tapped several times during the cooling and annealing processes to drop the seed crystals into the bottom crucible and aid crystal growth. After annealing, the Sn flux was dissolved by treating the sample in a 1:1 HCl/water solution. Bulk powders of BaCu 2P4 were prepared by loading Ba/Cu/P in a 1:2:4 molar ratio in a carbonized ampule. The ampule was evacuated, flame-sealed, and heated in a muffle furnace to 1098 K over 17 h, dwelled 140 h, then cooled to room temperature by turning off the furnace. The sample was annealed twice more following the same profile with intermittent grinding in the glovebox using an agate mortar and pestle. The final product was a black powder with trace ( 2%) admixture of Ba 3(PO 4)2,and this powder was used for 31 P NMR spectroscopy studies. Single crystals of BaCu 2P4 were obtained from a reaction containing Ba/Cu/Si/P/BaI 2 in a 8:16:1:30:2 molar ratio. The starting materials were flame-sealed in an evacuated carbonized silica ampule, then heated to 1133 K over 10 h, dwelled 144 h, and then naturally cooled to room temperature by turning off the furnace. The products were washed in DI water, filtered, then dried on air. Large (2-4 mm in length) shiny black rod-like crystals of BaCu 2P4 were obtained and used for elec-trical resistivity and Raman spectroscopy measurements. Samples for the electrical resistivity and Hall effect measurements were cut from larger crystals using a WS-22B high precision wire saw (from Unipress ) and ground down to appropriate dimensions to remove tin flux in-clusions. Typical samples had dimensions on the or-der of (2-3 x 0.5 x 0.1) mm 3. Contacts were made of 50 μm silver wire and were soldered with tin-silver alloy [12, 13], resulting in a contact resistance below 100 μΩ. The temperature-dependent electrical resistiv-ity measurements were performed in a Quantum Design 

PPMS (Physical Property Measurement System) setup in a temperature range of 2K-400 K using a four-probe configuration. The temperature range was extended up to 450 K using a Netzsch SBA 458 Nemesis system, with extended contacts to fit the size of the sample to the larger device. Measurements before and after irradiation were made on the same sample, thus excluding uncer-tainty in geometric factor determination. For the Hall effect measurements, contacts were sol-dered to the side surfaces of samples in 5-probe config-uration. Measurements were preformed in a PPMS at constant temperatures, sweeping magnetic fields from 9 to -9 Tesla. The antisymmetric part of the Hall resistance signal was then extracted and used for our analysis. The electron irradiation was performed at the SIRIUS Pelletron facility of the Laboratoire des Solid´ es Irradi´ es at the ´Ecole Polytechnique in Palaiseau, France, using electrons with an energy of 2.5 MeV [14]. The irradiation was done with the sample sitting in the liquid hydrogen ambient at around 20 K. This process introduces point-like defects throughout the entirety of the sample. The samples were irradiated with a dose of 3.1 C/cm 2. On warming up to room temperature, the defects partially anneal, with their density decreasing approximately by 30%. Further annealing was proceeding during in situ 

resistivity measurements up to 400 K. Upon annealing, the number of defects in the crystals dropped to corre-spond to approximately a 1.7 C/cm 2 dose, as estimated by assuming linear resistivity variation with irradiated dose. We interchangeably use the terms unirradiated, as-grown, and pristine to describe samples before irradi-ation. Polarized optical images were taken with a Leica DMLM polarization microscope Leica DMLM . The po-larizer and analyzer were nearly crossed during imaging. The image shown in the left panel of Fig. 2 was taken at room temperature and revealed a pattern of bright, nearly vertical stripes propagating through growth steps. This is very similar to structural domains observed in iron-based superconductors below their tetragonal-to-orthorhombic transitions [15]. To confirm that the pat-tern is indeed due to domains, we heated the sample above the temperature of the tetragonal to orthorhombic transition Ts. A small soldering iron provided enough en-ergy to heat the sample above the transition temperature (up to ∼450 K) without precision temperature control. As expected, the domain pattern disappears above Ts.Upon cooling, the domains reappeared, though their size depended on the rate of cooling. Magnetization measurements were performed using the VSM option of the Quantum Design Magnetic Prop-erty Measurement System (MPMS3) magnetometer. Afused silica sample holder was used for the 1.8 - 325 K range; for 300 - 450 K measurements, the oven option was used with the sample mounted on a heater stick with Zircar cement. For both mounts, the orientation of the sample was kept the same. Whereas the fused silica sample holder has virtually no background, small vertical shift of the high temperature data was required to account for (temperature independent) contribution of the heater stick and cement. Due to the presence of a small ferromagnetic component, presumably from elemental Ni in the magnetic signal, the Honda-Owen method, [16, 17], χ = ∆M/ ∆H, was used to evalu-ate the intrinsic magnetic susceptibility (see [4] for more detail). Temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility clearly shows a structural transition at Ts, with the posi-tion depending on thermal sweep rate and direction. The hysteresis between warming and cooling, ∼4 K, points to the first order nature of the transition. The transition temperature is roughly consistent with that reported in the literature [9] and that found in resistivity measure-ments. In the main panel of Fig. 3, we directly compare the two measurements taken using an identical protocol 4for cooling and warming at a rate of 1 K/min. The exact position of the transition depends on the criteria used, and in the following we take Ts =376 ± 2K. NMR measurements were performed on 31 P ( I =1/2, 

γN/2π = 17.2356 MHz/T) using a homemade phase-coherent spin-echo pulse spectrometer. Single crystals were crushed in an agate mortar to obtain powders to increase the signal to noise ratio in NMR measurements. The 31 P-NMR spectra were obtained by fast Fourier transform (FFT) of the NMR echo signals under an exter-nal magnetic field H of ∼7.4089 T. The 31 P spin-lattice relaxation rate (1 /T 1) was measured at the peak posi-tion of the spectra using a saturation recovery method. 1/T 1 at each temperature ( T ) was determined by fitting the nuclear magnetization MN versus time t using the exponential function 1 − MN(t)/M N(∞) = e−t/T 1 , where 

MN(t) and MN(∞) are the nuclear magnetization at time 

t after saturation and the equilibrium nuclear magneti-zation at t → ∞ , respectively. All the relaxation data measured in BaNi 2P4 and BaCu 2P4 were well fitted with this function. Raman scattering measurements were conducted in a back-scattering geometry using 532 nm laser excitation at 5 mW in a crossed-polarization configuration. Data were obtained from single-crystal BaNi 2P4 and BaCu 2P4 sam-ples, which were mounted in arbitrary orientations. Spec-tra at different temperatures have been normalized to the highest intensity phonon. Measurements performed           

> FIG. 3. Temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility of BaNi 2P4∆M/ ∆H= ( M1-M2)/ ( H1-H2), where H1= 70 kOe, H2= 25 kOe (left scale, see [4] for more details). Main panel shows zoom of the transition region measured on heat-ing (cyan) and cooling (blue) in magnetization measurements revealing notable hysteresis. High temperature data were taken both on warming and on cooling using 1 K/min heat-ing/cooling rate. Red and orange lines are from resistivity measured on warming and cooling using the same protocol (right scale). Inset shows the magnetization data over the whole temperature range, including the low temperature data reported in Ref. 4.

above and below 300 K on two distinct BaNi 2P4 crys-tals from the same growth batch revealed consistent Ra-man shifts. However, because the samples were mounted along arbitrary crystallographic directions relative to the incident polarization, variations in the relative intensities of the vibrational modes were observed between the two experimental runs. Electronic band structures of BaNi 2P4 in LTO and HTT structures with spin-orbit coupling (SOC) in den-sity functional theory [18, 19] (DFT) have been cal-culated using the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) [20] exchange-correlation functional, a plane-wave basis set, and the projected augmented wave method [21] as imple-mented in VASP [22, 23]. For accurate density of states (DOS) calculations, the tetrahedron method [24] with a Monkhorst-Pack [25] (16 ×16 ×16) k-point mesh, includ-ing the Γ point and a kinetic energy cutoff of 269.5 eV, has been used. An atomic radius of 1.6 ˚ A has been used to calculate the density of states (DOS) at the dif-ferent P sites in the LTO structure. For Hall coefficient and transport calculations, the semiclassical Boltzmann formula with the constant scattering rate approximation has been used [26]. Inelastic neutron scattering (INS) measurements of the phonon density of states of BaNi 2P4 were performed us-ing the ARCS time-of-flight spectrometer at the Spal-lation Neutron Source at Oak Ridge National Labora-tory. Polycrystalline samples were encased in an alu-minum can, and data were collected over the tempera-ture range of 25 K – 600 K using an incident energy of 90 meV. Empty can data were measured under identi-cal conditions and subtracted from all raw data. Data reduction was performed using the Mantid package,[27] and the neutron-weighted phonon density of states was extracted using a standard procedure.[28]   

> III. RESULTS A. Transport measurements

In the top panel of Fig. 4, we show the temperature-dependent resistivity of a pristine sample of BaNi 2P4 (black curve) over the temperature range that includes the tetragonal-orthorhombic transition at around 378 K in these measurements. The transition (indicated with the star) leads to a feature in the ρ(T )most clearly seen in the temperature-dependent resistiv-ity derivative dρ (T )/dT (right bottom inset in the top panel). The resistivity above the transition, though in a very limited range in these measurements, is close to linear, with the dotted black line showing a linear fit through the data. The red curve shows ρ(T ) of the same sample after electron irradiation with 3.1 C/cm 2.Measurements of the irradiated sample were initially per-formed by cooling the sample from 300 K down to 2 K and then warming it up to 400 K. As can be seen, the curves are completely reproducible (red solid dots) be-5

FIG. 4. Top panel. Variation of the temperature-dependent resistivity, ρ(T ), of BaNi 2P4 with controlled disorder. Black symbols represent the data in pristine state, red solid dots are after 3.1 C/cm 2. When the temperature of irradiated sample rises above 300 K, sample annealing starts (open red diamonds). The resistivity transients to a new value depend-ing on the highest temperature reached. The ρ(T ) after 400 K annealing is stable (open blue up-triangles). The black dotted line is linear fit through the ρ(T ) above the structural transi-tion in the pristine state. Both linear behavior of resistivity and extrapolation to positive temperatures are in line with ex-pectations for a good metal, see Fig. 1. Nearly parallel shift with respect to the pristine sample is observed after annealing. The bottom right inset in the top panel shows zoom of the temperature-dependent resistivity derivative in the transition area with stars highlighting the Ts position (reproduced in the main panel) and its shift in response to disorder. The left top inset in the top panel shows a comparison between the resis-tivity behavior of BaNi 2P4 (black open circles) and BaCu 2P4

(green solid circles). Bottom left panel shows defects creation cross-sections for Ba (top black curve), Ni (red curve) and P (blue curve) in BaNi 2P4 as function of electron energy assum-ing the displacement energy threshold, Ed = 25 eV. Bottom right panel shows variation of the structural transition tem-perature with resistivity of the sample immediately above the transition, used as a proxy for sample disorder level. 

low 300 K. Upon reaching 300 K, the sample resistivity starts to depend on defect annealing, determined by the highest temperature reached (red open circles). As a re-sult, nearly parallel resistivity shifts between pristine and irradiated curves start to decrease, and a new shift cor-responds to a lower defect density. Upon reaching 400 K, the new run (blue up-triangles) was taken down to 2 K and up to 400 K, revealing no further change in resistivity and complete reproducibility between cooling and warm-ing cycles. The resistivity curve shows a nearly parallel shift compared with the curve for the pristine sample, suggesting the validity of the Matthiessen rule. This par-

FIG. 5. Temperature-dependent Hall effect measured in two samples of BaNi 2P4 (red solid circles and black solid up-triangles), no change of the Hall constant on crossing Ts (ver-tical dashed line) beyond approximately 10% uncertainty of the Hall effect measurements. Thicker and thinner gray lines show Hall effect in the tetragonal and orthorhombic phases from the calculated band structure assuming constant scat-tering rate. The effect of the transition at Ts is negligible and well below error bars of the measurements. Right inset shows comparisons of the temperature dependent resistivity of BaNi 2P4 (red curve), of the anomalous charge density wave material TaSe 2 (black curve) (from Ref.33) and of ferromag-netic LaCrGe 3 (green symbols, after 34), using normalized resistivity, ρ/ρ (T ∗) and temperature T /T ∗ scales. Despite close resemblance of the resistivity curves for BaNi 2P4 and TaSe 2, the two compounds find quite different temperature dependent Hall effect (shown for TaSe 2 in the left inset). 

tial annealing reduces the residual resistivity by about a factor of 2. Assuming a linear relation of residual resis-tivity with the irradiation dose, verified experimentally in other systems obeying the Matthiessen rule [29, 30], this partially annealed state corresponds to an effective dose of 1.7 C/cm 2. Note that the transition temperature is visibly suppressed by disorder, from 378 K to 355 K (bottom right panel in Fig. 4). The rate of suppression ∆ Ts/T s0 =2% per 1 C/cm 2 in BaNi 2P4 can be compared to that in the other systems. In charge density wave materials (Sr,Ca) 3(Rh,Ir) 4Sn 13 

[32] the rate of suppression is about the same, ∼ 2% per 1 C/cm 2. In magnetite F 3O4 the rate of suppression is somewhat smaller, about 0.5% per 1 C/cm 2 [31]. Of note, Jahn-Teller mechanism of the transition is also invoked for the explanation of the Verwey transition here. To get an insight into a notable change of the tem-perature dependent resistivity below Ts from a T −linear above to a strongly non-linear below, we need to under-stand the change in the carrier density over the transi-tion. Indeed, the temperature-dependent carrier density, as exemplified by two-dimensional charge density wave material TaSe 2, can bring notable non-linearity to the 6

ρ(T ) [33]. To check this hypothesis, we performed Hall effect measurements in BaNi 2P4 through the transition temperature, as shown in Fig. 5. We found the Hall con-stant RH = ρxy d/B , where ρxy is Hall resistance, d is sample thickness, and B is magnetic field, to be indepen-dent of temperature within the noise of the data, both above and below the transition. The experimental results are in semi-quantitative agreement with the magnitude of the Hall effect calculated using the semi-classical Boltz-mann transport theory and the constant scattering rate approximation [26, 35] with DFT-calculated band struc-ture. The constant scattering rate approximation is good only for high temperatures, so the calculations are shown above 100 K both for the tetragonal phase (solid line) and the orthorhombic phase (dashes) in Fig. 5. This nearly temperature independence suggests that the variation of the conduction electron density plays a minor role in the transition. For reference, we compare the temperature dependent resistivity of TaSe 2 and BaNi 2P4 in the bot-tom right inset using normalized resistivity, ρ/ρ (Ts), and temperature T /T s scales. Despite the close resemblance of the resistivity curves, the two compounds exhibit quite different temperature dependent Hall effects (shown for TaSe 2 in the left inset in Fig. 5. ). We also compare the ρ(T ) of BaNi 2P4 with the case of dominant mag-netic scattering in the itinerant ferromagnet LaCrGe 3

[34]. Similar to BaNi 2P4, Matthiessen rule is obeyed upon irradiation in the latter material, suggesting neg-ligible transformation of the electronic structure, but a close similarity of ρ(T ) due to a loss of spin-disorder scat-tering in the ferromagnetically ordered state.  

> B. NMR

NMR measurements using the naturally abundant 31 Pnucleus as a probe provide additional insight into the changes in the electronic band structure of the materi-als. We performed comparative studies using BaCu 2P4

as a reference compound to understand the anomalous behavior of BaNi 2P4. The inset of Fig. 6 (a) shows the 

> 31

P NMR spectrum measured at T = 10 K under a mag-netic field of 7.4089 T in BaCu 2P4. Since the 31 P nu-cleus has I = 1/2, a single line was observed as expected. The observed spectra are nearly independent of temper-ature, with a full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 

∼33 kHz ( ∼19 Oe). The NMR shift ( K), determined by the peak position of the spectra, also shows temper-ature independent behavior as in Fig. 6 (a). Fig. 6 (b) shows the temperature dependence of 31 P spin-lattice re-laxation rate divided by temperature (1/ T1T ), which ex-hibits a 1/ T1T ≈ constant behavior. The temperature independent behavior for both K and 1/ T1T is expected for a normal metal, similar to the temperature indepen-dent Hall effect and magnetic susceptibility. In stark contrast, the NMR spectra of BaNi 2P4 reveal strong temperature dependence as shown in Fig. 7(a). Although a single line is observed above Ts = 378 K as in the case of BaCu 2P4, the line splits into two lines (P1 and P2) with decreasing temperature below Ts. This is due to the structural phase transition from the HTT to the LTO phases where two crystallographically inequivalent P sites exist [9] while only one P site exists in the HTT phase [9]. Figure 7(b) shows the temperature dependence of NMR shifts K for P1 [ K(P 1)] and P2 [ K(P2)] below Ts

together with K for the single peak observed above Ts.Just below Ts, K(P2) slightly increases, then decreases with a local maximum around 350 K and levels off at low temperatures below ∼125 K. On the other hand, K(P1) gradually decreases with decreasing temperature below 

Ts and becomes temperature independent below ∼125 K. The NMR shift generally has two contributions: the electron spin part Kspin and the temperature indepen-dent part K0: K = Kspin + K0, where K0 originates from the core electrons of the P atoms and their local              

> FIG. 6. (a) Temperature dependence of NMR shift Kfor BaCu 2P4.The inset shows the 31 P-NMR spectrum at T=10 K under a magnetic field of μ0H= 7.4089 T. The vertical dashed line in the inset represents the corresponding zero-shift positions in the 31 P NMR spectrum (Larmor frequency
> f0). (b) Temperature dependence of the 31 P spin-lattice re-laxation rate divided by temperature (1/ T1T) in BaCu 2P4.The horizontal solid lines in (a) and (b) are guides for the eye.

7environment as well. The different values of K suggest that Kspin and K0 can differ for the two P sites. As Kspin 

is proportional to the local density of states (DOS) at the Fermi Energy D(EF), the different values of K(P1) and 

K(P2) suggest that D(EF) for P2 is greater than that of P1. Also, as shown below, the results of 1/ T1T show the different DOS at P1 and P2. It is noted that the change in the bond distance between Ni and P atoms can lead to a change in K0. Actually, we found different values of 

K0 for the P1 and P2 sites, as shown below. As the temperature dependence of K(P2) and K(P1) near the Ts reflects the nature of the structural phase transition, we plot ∆ K = K(P2) −K(P1) in Fig. 7 (b) (green stars). As can be seen, ∆ K increases rapidly be-low Ts and becomes constant below ∼225 K. To check the difference in DOS at the P sites, we have performed DFT calculations in the LTO phase, where two distinct bond lengths between P and Ni ions ex-ist, making two crystallographically inequivalent P sites [P(1) and P(2)] [9]. With a set of lattice parameters of 

a = 6.620 ˚ A, b = 6.470 ˚ A, and c = 5.785 ˚ A in the LTO phase ( Immm ) [9], the bond length between Ni-P(1) is 2.218 ˚ A in the ac plane which is shorter than 2.240 ˚ A for the Ni-P(2) bond-length in the bc plane [9]. The calcu-lated DOS near the Fermi level at P(2) is found to be slightly greater than that of P(1) as shown in the bot-tom panel (c) of Fig. 7(c). The different DOS between the two P sites is consistent with the NMR data, and thus, we can assign P1 and P2 defined in the NMR spectrum               

> FIG. 7. (a) Temperature evolution of 31 P-NMR spectra in BaNi 2P4under a magnetic field 7.4089 T. Below Ts, the spec-tra split into two lines (P1 and P2).The vertical dashed line represents the corresponding zero-shift position in the 31 P-NMR spectrum (Larmor frequency f0). (b) Temperature de-pendence of NMR shift Kfor P1 [ K(P1): blue down-pointing triangles] and P2 [ K(P2): red up-pointing triangles] below Ts
> and for the peak (open circles) above Ts.Green stars show temperature dependence of the NMR line splitting ∆ K[=
> K(P2) −K(P1)]. (c) Calculated density of states projected for P1 and P2.

measurements to P(1) and P(2), respectively. To get further information about local physical prop-erties at the P sites in BaNi 2P4, we also measured 

> 31

P-1/ T1T with the results shown in Fig. 8(a). Above 

Ts, 1/ T1T is nearly independent of temperature within our experimental uncertainty, consistent with a metallic state. Below Ts, 1 /T 1T gradually decreases with decreas-ing temperature and exhibits a 1 /T 1T constant behavior below ∼150 K; again, the 1/ T1T = constant is expected for metallic states. It is noted that the value of 1/ T1T

for P2 is greater than that of P1. Since 1/ T1T is propor-tional to the squared D(EF), these results indicate that the local DOS at P2 is higher than that of P1. This is consistent with the results of the NMR shift described above. Now we discuss the magnetic fluctuations in BaNi 2P4

based on a modified Korringa relation analysis using the 

T1 and the electron spin part of the NMR shift ( Kspin )data. Within a Fermi liquid picture, as described above, 1/T 1T is proportional to the square of the DOS near               

> FIG. 8. (a) Temperature dependence of the 31 P spin-lattice relaxation rate divided by temperature (1/ T1T) for P1 (solid blue down-pointing triangles) and P2 (solid red up-pointing triangles) below Tsand for the P site (open circles) above
> Tsof BaNi 2P4.(b) (1/ T1T)1/2versus Kplot for P1 (blue down-pointing triangles) and P2 (red up-pointing triangles) together with data (open circles) above Ts. The inset shows the temperature dependence of αfor P1 and P2.

8  

> FIG. 9. Temperature evolution of the Raman spectra in BaCu 2P4at temperatures above 300 K, showing negligible evolution of the spectra.

the Fermi energy D(EF) and Kspin is proportional to 

D(EF). In particular, T1T K 2spin = ℏ

> 4πk B

 γe

> γN

2

= S,which is the Korringa relation. Deviations from S can reveal information about electron correlations in mate-rials [36, 37], which are expressed via the parameter 

α = S/ (T1T K 2spin ). For instance, the enhancement of 

χ(q̸ = 0) increases 1 /T 1T but has little or no effect on 

Kspin , which probes only the uniform χ with q = 0. Thus 

α > 1 for AFM correlations and α < 1 for FM correla-tions. To estimate α value, one needs to obtain Kspin from the experimentally observed K. From the relationship between 1 /T 1T and K described above, 1 /√T1T is pro-portional to K = Kspin + K0. Thus by plotting 1 /√T1T

versus K with T as an implicit parameter, one can ob-tain K0 and thus Kspin . In fact, as shown in Fig. 8(b), a linear relation between 1 /√T1T and K = Kspin + K0

can be observed, where we plotted the data below 225 K to avoid the effects on the K and 1 /T 1T data from the structural phase transition. From the horizontal inter-cept, K0s are estimated to be -0.007% and 0.018% for P1 and P2, respectively. Utilizing the values of K0, we esti-mated α values whose temperature dependence is shown in the inset of Fig. 8(b). Although experimental uncer-tainty is relatively large, α seems to be close to unity for both P sites. This would suggest no strong magnetic fluc-tuations (or electronic correlations) in the metallic state below Ts in BaNi 2P4. It is noted that, above Ts, we were not able to estimate K0 since 1/ T1T is nearly indepen-dent of temperature, which makes the analysis difficult (see the open circles in Fig. 8(b)). Nevertheless, as the open circles in the figure seem to be close to the line fit to the P2 data, this may suggest no significant magnetic fluctuations even in the HTT phase.        

> FIG. 10. Temperature evolution of the Raman spectra in BaNi 2P4at temperatures above 300 K. Note complete sup-pression of Ba 1and Ba 2lines in the tetragonal phase above 373 K.
> FIG. 11. Temperature evolution of the Raman spectra in BaNi 2P4at temperatures below 300 K.
> C. Raman scattering

In Fig. 9, we show the evolution with temperature of the Raman spectra in the reference compound BaCu 2P4

at temperatures above 300 K. The spectra show some broadening on heating to 413 K, but no new lines appear and no significant transformations in the spectra are vis-ible. Most notably, the group of lines between 50 and 150 cm −1, due to Ba rattling inside the cage [4] remains unchanged. Fig. 10 and Fig. 11 show the spectra of Raman scat-tering in BaNi 2P4 below and above room temperature, respectively. While the temperature dependence of the position and the width of the peaks denoted as Ba 1 and Ba 2 becomes notable for temperatures as low as 150 K, it becomes very pronounced when approaching Ts from below. Ba 1 line softens and broadens and eventually be-9  

> FIG. 12. Temperature dependence of the Ba 1(brown circles) and Ba 2(green stars) line positions in the Raman spectra.

comes indistinguishable for temperatures above 353 K. The Ba 2 mode disappears at T s without significant soft-ening, Fig. 12. This behavior is consistent with a struc-tural transition to a higher-symmetry phase where this particular vibration becomes Raman-inactive due to se-lection rules. The high frequency modes 1, 2, and 3 (shifts above 250 cm −1) do not reveal any changes, as illustrated in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11. This difference in the behavior of low frequency modes in Ni and Cu compounds is instrumental in understand-ing the physics of the phase transition. It is clear that Ba 1 line in BaNi −2P 4 represents the soft mode of the transition [38]. Similar to the soft mode observed, for example, in SrTiO 3, the mode is related to the distortion of the cage in the orthorhombic phase, not to the exis-tence of the cage per se. The topology of M 8P16 cages is different in BaNi 2P4 and BaCu 2P4 [7] and the differ-ence in the temperature evolution of the lines suggests that the motion of Ba atom remains restricted inside the cage in the Cu compound so that the vibration frequen-cies do not change. On the contrary, softening on Ba 1

line and loss of amplitude of Ba 2 line suggest that Ba atom is not bound to the cage atoms in the HTT phase of the BaNi 2P4. Distortion of the cage below Ts is re-lated to a shift of the Ba ion from the central position in HTT phase, which naturally leads to the existence of P ions closer to and further away from the central ion and a difference in the local environment, which may lead to different values in K0 for P(1) and P(2) in the NMR spectra. Thus, the observed different values of K0 may support the scenario. In Fig. 12 we plot the energy of the Ba 1 and Ba 2 vi-brations in the Raman spectra. The energy of the Ba 1

vibration is indirectly related to the order parameter of the structural phase transition (that is, orthorhombic dis-tortion), similar to NMR line splitting, Fig. 7.(b) Com-parison of the temperature dependence of NMR splitting 

> FIG. 13. Neutron-weighted phonon density of states extracted from inelastic neutron scattering data as a function of temper-ature. Curves are offset for clarity. The bottom plot is a calcu-lation weighted by neutron cross-section PDOS for BaNi 2P4.

and of the Raman line position reveals one interesting difference. NMR line splitting shows a notably faster in-crease below the transition and clear saturation below 200 K. The NMR shift includes both chemical shift and Knight shift contributions; the latter is supposed to be temperature independent in a metal. This suggests that the distortion of the cage mainly happens right below the transition, and it plays a very important role in the overall NMR shift.  

> D. Inelastic neutron scattering

Inelastic neutron scattering measurements reported in our initial report below room temperature [4] were ex-tended to higher temperatures, up to 600 K, to cover the transition range at Ts. As reported previously, partial densities of states (PDOS) are consistent with simula-tions, as shown by the bottom curves in Fig. 13. The 10 low-energy portion of the measured PDOS shows a stiff-ening with increasing temperature and non-Debye behav-ior for temperatures less than 100 K, possibly reflecting the anharmonicity of Einstein-like modes related to un-correlated Ba ionic motions within the Ni-P framework below 100 K. The rest of the PDOS shows little change upon warming, indicating that the Ni −P framework is more harmonic and less sensitive to thermal changes. Ba vibrational amplitude dominates the flat regions at the top of acoustic branches as well as some low-energy portions of optical branches, which supports the notion of low-energy, large amplitude Ba vibrations. However, since the Ba modes are clearly hybridized with acoustic modes, there is not a distinct decoupling into Ba modes versus framework modes. BaNi 2P4 exhibits a splitting of the Ba position, resulting in short Ba framework inter-actions.  

> IV. DISCUSSION

Superlinear temperature dependence of resistivity is usually discussed as an additional contribution to scat-tering in the Einstein solid model [39, 40]. This model was invoked to explain the superlinear ρ(T ) of MgB 2 [41] and LaB 6 [42]. Here, scattering of conduction electrons occurs on optical phonon modes, requiring some finite energy Θ E to populate the mode. The dependence is described by the equation 

ρE = B Θ2 

> E

e−ΘE /T 

T (1 − e−ΘE /T )2 . (2) where the amplitude B is usually used as a fitting pa-rameter. This contribution should be added to ρBG , so that ρ = ρ0 + ρBG + ρE . The existence of a soft mode in the Raman spectra of BaNi 2P4 with a characteristic en-ergy of about 150 cm −1 or about 220 K may suggest that scattering on this mode is playing a role in the anoma-lous temperature dependence of resistivity in BaNi 2P4.To gain insight into this possibility, we plot in Fig. 14 the dependence calculated from the above equation for several values of Θ E . These plots reveal characteristic features of the Einstein mode contribution to resistivity. The resistivity remains temperature independent below ΘE /10 or so, it is superlinear in the range from Θ E /10 approximately to Θ E /5 and it is linear for T > ΘE . It is clear that scattering invoking modes with Θ E as high as 1500 or 1600 K is needed to capture the non-linearity observed in the experiment in BaNi 2P4, which is unreal-istic. For the discussion of our results, it is worth bringing to attention other systems revealing strongly non-linear 

ρ(T ) below the metal-metal phase transition. Notable non-linearity of ρ(T ) below the ordering temperature is observed in the two-dimensional superconducting charge density wave materials 2H-TaS 2 and 2H-TaSe 2 [33]. The       

> FIG. 14. Temperature dependence of resistivity in Einstein mode model, equation 2, plotted for B=1 and different Θ E
> as indicated in the figure. The evolution suggests that the superlinear dependence is observed for temperatures signifi-cantly below Θ E, and the dependence becomes nearly linear for T > ΘE, as seen in the top panel. ).

comparison of the temperature dependent resistivity be-tween BaNi 2P4 and TaSe 2 is made explicitly in Fig. 5 using normalized resistivity and temperature scales. The resistivity curves look quite similar, as shown in the right inset. This is most amazing considering that the Fermi surface of TeSe 2 is grossly reconstructed below the transi-tion, as revealed by the sign change and notable increase in the magnitude of the Hall effect in TaSe 2, left inset in Fig. 5. This result suggests that, in both cases, the domi-nant effect comes from the variation of scattering. In TaSe 2, the ρ(T ) at temperatures above the TCDW ex-trapolates to a very high residual resistivity, suggesting notable charge disorder scattering, which diminishes be-low TCDW [33]. In BaNi 2P4, the extrapolation of the 

T −linear resistivity from the temperatures above Ts gives a negative intersection on the resistivity axis and a pos-itive intersection on the temperature axis. This is an expected behavior in BG theory, which is at odds with observations in TaSe 2.Another material in which a metal-metal transition leads to a non-linear ρ(T ) is the organic supercon-11             

> FIG. 15. Temperature dependence of resistivity in BaNi 2P4
> (black line) and Bloch-Gr¨ uneisen fit of the high temperature part with Debye temperature of Θ d=500 K as suggested from the analysis of high-temperature heat capacity [11] and residual resistivity ρ0HT T significantly higher than ρ0LT O as marked by arrows. Green line is the difference between the actual data and the fit showing contribution equivalent to the loss of residual resistivity between the high temperature HTT phase, ρ0HT T , and low temperature LTO phase, ρ0LT O . Inset shows the difference compared to frequency of the Ba 1mode plotted out of scale for comparison (stars).

ductors β-(BEDT–TTF) 2IBr 2 and β-(BEDT–TTF) 2I3

[43]. These materials display an extended range of 

T −superlinear resistivity behavior, where the resistivity is well-described by the equation p = p0 + αT 2, though the prefactor, α, changes at 125 K [43]. In organic com-pounds, this transition is caused by ordering in terminal ethylene groups [44], presumably viewed as disorder by conduction electrons. It is tempting to speculate that the loss of disorder is also responsible for an anomalous resis-tivity behavior below a metal to metal structural transi-tion in BaNi 2P4. The resistivity decrease below T −linear extrapolation is not expected in usual metals, but is akin to magnetic metals with strong spin-disorder scattering in the paramagnetic state [45, 46], which is lost on mag-netic ordering. This is most clearly observed in ferromag-netic materials like LaCrGe 3 [34], in which ordering is not accompanied by the Fermi surface reconstruction. In the right inset of Fig. 5, we explicitly compare the resistiv-ity of BaNi 2P4 and LaCrGe 3. The curves indeed bear similarity in their overall dependence. The important re-lation for understanding this contribution is the direct proportionality between the full magnetic scattering rate (including small angle scattering) and magnetic entropy, as revealed in CeRhIn 5 [47]. Although both NMR line splitting and the frequency of the Ba 1 mode in Raman scattering indirectly reflect the temperature evolution of the order parameter, they do not directly reflect the en-tropy change, which is important for scattering. In Fig. 15 we explore the idea of loss of scattering be-low Ts. We fit ρ(T ) above the transition using a rather high value of Θ D = 500 K, found in heat capacity mea-surements while taking into account high energy Einstein modes [11]. This fit gives a positive extrapolation of the high temperature part on the resistivity axis (red line in the main panel of Fig. 15). The difference between the fit 

ρBG and experimental ρ(T ) is shown as a green line in the main panel of Fig. 15. This difference resembles the be-havior of the structural order parameter, inset in Fig. 15. We thus conclude that the Ba atom rattling mode in the cage in the high temperature tetragonal phase adds an additional local contribution with ρ0HT T > ρ 0LT O and adds a constant offset to the high temperature part of the resistivity.  

> V. CONCLUSIONS

In summary, we found that the anomalous superlin-ear temperature-dependent resistivity of BaNi 2P4 is ob-served only below the tetragonal-to-orthorhombic tran-sition at around 376 K. The transition does not notably affect carrier density, as evidenced by the validity of the Matthiessen rule and the temperature-independent Hall effect. The behavior above the transition follows the expectations of Bloch-Gr¨ uneisen theory for a normal metal with T −linear resistivity, extrapolating to a posi-tive offset on the resistivity axis. We attribute the down-ward deviation from linear dependence below Ts to a loss of additional residual resistivity contribution above TS .We conclude that the super-linear resistivity variation is caused by the anomalous temperature-dependence of the scattering rate, most likely related to the build-up of the structural order parameter. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The authors thank P. Alemany for insightful discus-sion. This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science, Basic Energy Sci-ences, Materials Science and Engineering Division. Ames Laboratory is operated for the U.S. DOE by Iowa State University under contract DE-AC02-07CH11358. The authors acknowledge support from the EMIR&A French Network (FR CNRS 3618) on the platform SIRIUS. Some of the computation used resources of the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC), a DOE Office of Science User Facility. K.K. and G.V. acknowl-edge support by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of Materials Science and Engineering, grant DE-SC0022288. R. G. thanks Alexandr Alekhin and Yann Gallais for giving access to the AFM-Raman platform of Universit´ e Paris Cit´ e which is supported by an IdEx Grant, ANR-18-IDEX-0001. OD acknowledges support from the U.S. Department of En-ergy, Office of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materi-als Sciences and Engineering Division, under Award No. 12 DE-SC0019978. E.H.K., M.A.T. and E.I.T. performed electrical resis-tivity and Hall effect measurements as a function of elec-tron irradiation. E.H.K. and E.I.T. conducted polarized light imaging of domains. S.L.B. and P.C.C. performed high temperature magnetization measurements. Q.P.D. and Y.F. performed NMR measurements. L.L.W. per-formed DFT band structure calculations and Hall ef-fect calculations. M.K. and R.G. performed electron ir-radiation. R.G. performed Raman scattering measure-ments. J.N. and O.D. conducted inelastic neutron scat-tering measurements. G. V. and J.W. grew single crys-tals of BaNi 2P4 and BaCu 2P4 and performed their struc-tural characterizations, K.K., R.P. and M.A.T. designed the project. M.A.T., E.H.K., R.G. Y.F., K.K. and R.P. drafted the manuscript with inputs from all authors. 

[1] J. Wang, J. Dolyniuk, and K. Kovnir, Unconventional Clathrates with Transition Metal-Phosphorus Frame-works, Acc. Chem. Res. 51 , 31-39 (2018). [2] Juli-Anna Dolyniuk, Bryan Owens-Baird, Jian Wang, Julia V. Zaikina, and Kirill Kovnir, Clathrate thermo-electrics, Mater. Sci. Eng. R Reports, 108 , 1-46 (2016). [3] Alex Zevalkink, David M. Smiadak, Jeff L. Blackburn, Andrew J. Ferguson, Michael L. Chabinyc, Olivier De-laire, Jian Wang, Kirill Kovnir, Joshua Martin, Laura T. Schelhas, Taylor D. Sparks, Stephen D. Kang, Maxwell T. Dylla, G. Jeffrey Snyder, Brenden R. Ortiz, and Eric S. Toberer, A practical field guide to thermoelectrics: Fundamentals, synthesis, and characterization, Appl. Phys. Rev. 5, 021303 (2018). [4] Jian Wang, Juli-Anna Dolyniuk, Elizabeth H. Krenkel, L. Niedziela, Makariy A. Tanatar, E. I. Timmons, Tyson Lanigan-Atkins, Haidong Zhou, Yongqiang Cheng, Ani-bal J. Ramirez-Cuesta, Deborah L. Schlagel, Udhara S. Kaluarachchi, Lin-Lin Wang, Sergey L. Bud’ko, Paul C. Canfield, Ruslan Prozorov, Olivier Delaire, and Kirill Kovnir, Clathrate BaNi 2P4: An Interplay of Heat and Charge Transport Due to Strong Host-Guest Interac-tions, Chem. Mater. 32 , 7932 (2020). [5] J. M. Ziman, Electrons and phonons: the theory of trans-port phenomena in solids , Oxford classic texts in the Physical Sciences (Clarendon, Oxford, 2001). [6] J. Bardeen, Electrical Conductivity of Metals, J. Appl. Phys. 11 , 88 (1940). [7] Juli-Anna Dolyniuk, Jian Wang, Kathleen Lee, and Kir-ill Kovnir, Twisted Kelvin Cells and Truncated Octahe-dral Cages in the Crystal Structures of Unconventional Clathrates, AM 2P4 (A = Sr, Ba; M = Cu, Ni), Chem. Mater. 27 ,4476 (2015). [8] V. V. Novikov, S. L. Bud’ko, A. V. Matovnikov, N. V. Mitroshenkov, K. S. Pilipenko, N. A. Konoplin, I. V. Plokhikh, A. Pfitzner and A. V. Shevelkov, The specific features of phononic and magnetic subsystems of type-VII clathrate EuNi 2P4, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 22 ,18025 (2020). [9] V. Keimes, D. Johrendt, and A. Mewis, BaNi 2P4 - di-morphism by Peierls instability, Z. Anorg. Allg. Chem. 

621 , 925 (1995). [10] A. A. Palacios, P. Alemany, S. Alvarez, and R. Hoffmann, Electronic structure and bonding in BaNi 2P4, An. Quim. 

93 , 385 (1997). [11] Vladimir Novikov, Kirill Pilipenko, Aleksandr Ma-tovnikov, Nikolay Mitroshenkov, Igor Plokhikh, Alek-sandr Tyablikov, and Andrey Shevelkov, Structure-Related Thermal Properties of Type-VII Clathrates SrNi 2P4 and BaNi 2P4 at Low Temperature, Phys. Status Solidi B 255 , 1800067 (2018). [12] M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, C. Martin, R. T. Gordon, H. Kim, V. G. Kogan, G. D. Samolyuk, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Anisotropy of the iron pnictide superconductor Ba(Fe 1−xCo x)2As 2, ( x = 0 .074, 

Tc = 23 K), Phys. Rev. B 79 , 094507 (2009). [13] M. A. Tanatar, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Field-dependent transport critical current in single crystals of Ba(Fe 1−xTM x)2As 2 (TM = Co, Ni) superconductors, Supercond. Sci. Technol. 23 , 054002 (2010). [14] http://emir.in2p3.fr/LSI, electron irradiation facility. [15] M. A. Tanatar, A. Kreyssig, S. Nandi, N. Ni, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, A. I. Goldman, and R. Prozorov, Direct imaging of the structural domains in the iron pnic-tides AFe 2As 2 (A= Ca, Sr, Ba), Phys. Rev.B 79 , 180508 (R) (2009). [16] K. Honda, Die thermomagnetischen Eigenschaften der Elemente. Ann. Phys. Lpz. 32 , 1048 (1910). [17] M. Owen, Magnetochemische Untersuchungen. Die ther-momagnetischen Eigenschaften der Elemente. II. Ann. Phys. Lpz. 37 , 657 (1912). [18] P. Hohenberg, and W. Kohn, Inhomogeneous Electron Gas, Phys. Rev. 136 , B864-B871 (1964). [19] W. Kohn, and L. J. Sham, Self-Consistent Equations In-cluding Exchange and Correlation Effects, Phys. Rev. 

140 , A1133-A1138 (1965). [20] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Generalized gradient approximation made simple, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

77 , 3865-3868 (1996). [21] P. E. Bl¨ ochl, Projector Augmented-Wave Method, Phys. Rev. B 50 , 17953 (1994). [22] G. Kresse, and J. Furthmuller, Efficient Iterative Schemes for Ab initio Total-Energy Calculations Using a Plane-Wave Basis Set, Phys. Rev. B 54 , 11169 (1996). [23] G. Kresse, J. Furthmuller, Efficiency of Ab-initio Total Energy Calculations for Metals and Semiconductors Us-ing a Plane-Wave Basis Set, Comp. Mater. Sci. 6, 15 (1996). [24] P. E. Bl¨ ochl, O. Jepsen, and O. K. Andersen, Im-proved tetrahedron method for Brillouin-zone integra-tions, Phys. Rev.B 49 , 16223 (1994). [25] H. J. Monkhorst, and J. D. Pack, Special Points for Brillouin-Zone Integrations, Phys. Rev. B bf 13, 5188 (1976). [26] G. K. H. Madsen, and D. J. Singh, BoltzTraP. A code for calculating band-structure dependent quantities, Comp. Phys. Commun. 175 , 67 (2006). [27] O. Arnold, et al. Mantid - Data Analysis and Visualiza-tion Package for Neutron Scattering and Experiments, Nuc. Inst. Methods Phys. Res. A, 764 , 156 (2014). 13 

[28] M. Kresch, O. Delaire, R. Stevens, J. Y. Y. Lin, and B. Fultz, Neutron scattering measurements of phonons in nickel at elevated temperatures, Phys. Rev. B, 75 ,104301 (2007). [29] R. Prozorov, M. Ko´ nczykowski, M.A.Tanatar, A. Thaler, S.L.Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, V. Mishra, and P. J. Hirschfeld, Effect of Electron Irradiation on Super-conductivity in Single Crystals of Ba(Fe 1−xRu x)2As 2

(x =0.24), Phys. Rev. X 4, 041032 (2014). [30] E. I. Timmons, S. Teknowijoyo, M. Ko´ nczykowski, O. Ca-vani, M. A. Tanatar, Sunil Ghimire, Kyuil Cho, Yongbin Lee, Liqin Ke, Na Hyun Jo, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Can-field, Peter P. Orth, Mathias S. Scheurer, and R. Pro-zorov, Electron irradiation effects on superconductivity in PdTe 2: An application of a generalized Anderson the-orem, Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 023140 (2020). [31] Ruslan Prozorov, Makariy A. Tanatar, Erik I. Timmons, Marcin Ko´ nczykowski, and Tanya Prozorov, Response of the Verwey transition in magnetite to controlled point-like disorder induced by 2.5 MeV electron irradiation, Mater. Res. Bull. 167 , 112442 (2023). [32] E. H. Krenkel, M. A. Tanatar, M. Ko´ nczykowski, R. Grasset, E. I. Timmons, S. Ghimire, K. R. Joshi, Y. Lee, Liqin Ke, Shuzhang Chen, C. Petrovic, P. P. Orth, M. S. Scheurer, and R. Prozorov, Possible unconventional pair-ing in (Ca,Sr) 3(Ir,Rh) 4Sn 13 superconductors revealed by controlling disorder, Phys. Rev. B 105 , 094521 (2022). [33] M. Naito and S. Tanaka, Electrical transport properties in 2H-NbS 2, 2H-NbSe 2, 2H-TaS 2 and 2H-TaSe 2, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 51 , 219 (1982). [34] E. H. Krenkel, M. A. Tanatar, M. Ko´ nczykowski, R. Grasset, Lin-Lin Wang, S. L. Bud’ko, P. C. Canfield, and R. Prozorov, Enhancement of the Curie temperature in single-crystalline ferromagnetic LaCrGe 3 by electron irradiation-induced disorder, Phys. Rev. B 110 , 014429 (2024). [35] L. Chaput, P. P´ echur, and H. Scherrer, Thermopower, Hall tensor, and relaxation time approximation for ele-mental zinc, Phys. Rev B 75 , 045116 (2007). [36] T. Moriya, The effect of electron-electron interaction on the nuclear spin relaxation in metals, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 

18 , 516 (1963). [37] A. Narath and H. T. Weaver, Effects of Electron-Electron Interactions on Nuclear Spin-Lattice Relaxation Rates and Knight Shifts in Alkali and Noble Metals, Phys. Rev. 

175 , 378 (1968). [38] G. Venkataraman, Soft modes and structural phase tran-sitions, Bull. Mater. Sci., 1, 129-170 (1979). [39] A. D. Caplin, J. B. Dunlop, and G. Gruner, Al 10 V: An Einstein Solid, Phys. Rev. Lett. 30 , 1138 (1973). [40] J. R. Cooper, Electrical resistivity of an Einstein solid, Phys. Rev. B 9, 2778 (1974). [41] Dinesh Varshney, Impurity, phonon and electron contri-butions to the electrical resistivity of single-crystal MgB 2,Supercond. Sci. Technol. 19 , 685–694 (2006). [42] D. Mandrus, B. C. Sales, and R. Jin, Localized vibra-tional mode analysis of the resistivity and specific heat of LaB 6, Phys.Rev. B 64 , 012302 (2001). [43] S. Kalish, D.Schweitzer, and H. J. Keller, Investigations of the transport properties of the organic superconduc-tors β-(BEDT-TTF) 2I3 and βt-(BEDT-TTF) 2I3 , Solid State Comm. 76 , 933 (1990). [44] S. Ravy, R. Moret, and J.-P. Pouget, Ex-planation of the phase diagram of β-di[bis(ethylenedithio)tetrathiafulvalene]triiodide based on the two configurations of the organic molecule, Phys. Rev. B 38 , 4469 (1988). [45] H. Ebert, S. Mankovsky, K. Chadova, S. Polesya, J. Min´ ar, and D. Kodderitzsch, Calculating linear-response functions for finite temperatures on the basis of the alloy analogy model, Phys. Rev. B 91, 165132 (2015). [46] G. D. Samolyuk, S. Mu, A. F. May, B. C. Sales, S. Wim-mer, S. Mankovsky, H. Ebert, and G. M. Stocks, Tem-perature dependent electronic transport in concentrated solid solutions of the 3d-transition metals Ni, Fe, Co and Cr from first principles, Phys. Rev. B 98 , 165141 (2018). [47] Johnpierre Paglione, M. A. Tanatar, D. G. Hawthorn, R. W. Hill, F. Ronning, M. Sutherland, Louis Taillefer, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Canfield, Heat Transport as a Probe of Electron Scattering by Spin Fluctuations: The Case of Antiferromagnetic CeRhIn 5, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 , 216602 (2005).