Title: Topological spin freezing in frustrated quantum materials

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.06069v1

Published Time: Fri, 08 May 2026 01:19:29 GMT

Number of Pages: 69

Markdown Content:
# Topological spin freezing in frustrated quantum materials 

U. Jena, 1 M. Barman, 1, † A. Pradhan, 1, † and P. Khuntia 1, 2, ∗

> 1

Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai, 600036, India 

> 2

Quantum Centre of Excellence for Diamond and Emergent Materials, Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai, 600036, India 

(Dated: May 8, 2026) Competing interactions, non-trivial electronic band topology, quantum fluctuations, and the in-terplay between emergent degrees of freedom in frustrated quantum materials can lead to a myriad of exotic phenomena crucial for addressing recurring themes in contemporary condensed matter while offering immense promise for quantum technologies. Glassy dynamics, originally explored in amorphous materials and biological systems, has gained significant attention in quantum condensed matter physics, particularly in the context of collective behavior of electrons, quasiparticle excita-tions, and exotic topological spin textures. Here, we investigate the manifestation of unconventional glassy spin dynamics in a broad class of frustrated magnets, where the underlying mechanisms of spin freezing exhibit distinct signatures in thermodynamic and microscopic experiments. We iden-tify distinct signatures of topological spin glass behavior in frustrated quantum materials through a comprehensive suite of experimental probes, including thermodynamic measurements, nuclear mag-netic resonance, muon spin relaxation spectroscopy, and inelastic neutron scattering. These comple-mentary techniques collectively reveal unconventional spin dynamics, short-range spin correlations, emergent low-energy excitations, and glassy behavior with topological underpinnings, distinguishing this state from conventional spin glasses and disordered magnets. Furthermore, we discuss the role of hydrodynamic spin modes in governing glassy dynamics and the emergence of spin jam states in frustrated lattices that provide a comprehensive framework for understanding the unconventional spin freezing of topological origin, bridging experimental observations with theoretical models. The current review aims at widening our understanding of collective many-body phenomena, stemming from competing interactions, topological defects, collective excitations and their interactions, entan-glement, and underlying symmetry, which may aid in the design and investigation of novel quantum materials to address some of the fundamental questions in contemporary condensed matter, with potential significance in quantum technologies. 

Contents 

I. Introduction 2II. Theoretical Framework 4A. Symmetry and Ergodicity Breaking in Complex Spin Systems 4B. Canonical Spin Glass 7C. Emergent Glassiness in Frustrated Quantum Magnets 8D. Hydrodynamic Formalism of Spin Glasses 10 E. Spin Jam Formalism 10 III. Experimental Signatures of Topological Spin Freezing 11 A. Thermodynamic Characteristics 11 1. Two peak nature of specific heat 15 2. Contrasting nature of specific heat in canonical and topological spin glasses 16 B. Signatures of Topological Spin Freezing via Local Probes 17 1. Nuclear magnetic resonance 17   

> †equal contribution
> ∗pkhuntia@iitm.ac.in

2. Neutron scattering 19 3. μSR experiments 21 IV. Candidate Quantum Materials for Topological Spin Freezing 25 A. Kagome lattice antiferromagnets 25 B. Triangular lattice antiferromagnets 28 C. Square lattice antiferromagnets 33 D. Kitaev magnets 35 E. Pyrochlore lattice 38 F. Other promising frustrated spin-lattices 41 V. Hierarchical Vs. Non-hierarchical Energy landscape 44 VI. Effect of Chemical Pressure on Spin Freezing 45 VII. The Magnetic Trichotomy: Order, Glass, and Liquid 48 VIII. Operational Definition and Role of Topology in Topological Spin Glass 49 IX. Technological Relevance and Prospects of Frustrated Spin Glasses 51 X. Summary and Outlook 54 References 55 

> arXiv:2605.06069v1 [cond-mat.str-el] 7 May 2026

2 

> I. Introduction

The quest for organizing principles in many-body sys-tems provides a route to address many fundamental ques-tions in science. It ranges from the mechanism behind protein folding in biological cells to the emergence of su-perconductivity in novel materials. At the heart of this progress lie two fundamental concepts: symmetry and topology, each of which governs the phase transitions in matter. Geometry is one of the most fundamental concepts to explain the underlying symmetry and funda-mental laws of nature. The theory of general relativity merges space and time into a single manifold, which was previously thought to be independent of each other [1]. On the other hand, quantum mechanics projects the dy-namics of a particle in a box onto a spectrum of energy levels [2, 3]. Therefore, the energy spectrum encodes the shape of the manifold in which the particle resides. String theory views a particle as a tiny vibrating loop, and the energy spectrum of this loop in a manifold reveals the equivalence between the large and small compactification scales [4]. The effect of geometry also finds a profound implication in magnetism. Particularly in antiferromag-netically interacting Ising spins on a triangular lattice, all the bonds cannot be satisfied simultaneously, which in turn gives rise to magnetic frustration [5, 6]. As a result, the ground state becomes highly degenerate, and exotic states of matter emerge with unconventional spin excitations. Like the quote in a famous article asks, “Can one hear the shape of a drum?" [7], can the collective spin excitations of a frustrated spin lattice encode the shape of its underlying free-energy landscape? Topology is the property of a geometrical object that remains invariant under smooth and continuous deforma-tions such as stretching or bending [2]. In condensed mat-ter physics, the topological perspective provides a pow-erful tool for describing phases of matter that cannot be distinguished solely by symmetry. The phase transition due to symmetry breaking has a local order parameter associated with it. However, the topological phases of matter are characterized by a non-local order parame-ter associated with long-range entanglement [8–11]. The topological phases remain stable under smooth deforma-tions of the Hamiltonian as long as the energy gap does not close. Topological quantum materials host exotic ex-citations that follow the fractional statistics. Unlike conventional order in matter, which is charac-terized by a local order parameter, topological phases are defined by global features of the many-body wave func-tion—such as Chern numbers, winding numbers, or topo-logical entanglement entropy—that remain stable against smooth deformations of the Hamiltonian [8–11]. The topological state of quantum matter is governed by a syn-ergistic interplay between competing degrees of freedom, collective excitations, the incompatibility of exchange in-teractions, long-range entanglement, fractional statistics, and a highly degenerate manifold that transcends the standard paradigm, offering a viable avenue to address fundamental challenges in quantum condensed matter and great potential for next-generation technology [12– 17]. The interplay between symmetry, topology, and geom-etry shapes the fundamental principles that govern how matter organizes itself. The same underlying principle often produces metastable landscapes, where dynamics are trapped and slow relaxation dominates. Metastabil-ity refers to an intermediate energetic state, higher than that of the equilibrium state. It is observed across diverse scales, ranging from isomerization to neuroscience. Most emergent properties of matter are in metastable states that span a vast range of scales. For example, diamond, though an inert and hard material, is itself a metastable state. Its conversion to graphite, the true thermody-namic ground state of carbon, is prevented by a large kinetic barrier [18, 19]. The existence of life itself holds metastability at various levels. For example, protein folding is a metastable phenomenon. Without metasta-bility, proteins might fall into completely collapsed or aggregated forms (like amyloid fibrils), losing their bi-ological functionality. In another instance, the cosmo-logical constant problem [20] suggests that we live in a metastable universe [21]. The study suggests that false vacua can persist in the universe as long-lived metastable states [22, 23]. Such false vacua could destabilize the uni-verse if they under go a transition to a true vacuum state, releasing vast amounts of energy that, in turn, can funda-mentally change the structure of the universe [22–25]. In condensed matter physics, the concept of false vacuum decay appears in various studies, including ferromag-netic atomic Bose-Einstein condensates [26], ultra-cold atom condensation [27], quantum spin chains [28], and the destabilization of Kitaev spin liquids [29, 30]. This shows that metastability is a fundamental phenomenon that appears from microscopic quantum systems to the vast scale of the cosmos. Landau’s Fermi liquid theory has been very success-ful in explaining the behavior of conventional condensed matter systems that undergo symmetry-breaking phase transitions. It could explain why materials like copper are good conductors of electricity. The Fermi liquid the-ory describes electrons as quasiparticles that behave al-most like free electrons but with renormalized properties due to many-body interactions [31, 32]. The quasiparti-cles preserve the fundamental properties such as charge and spin quantum numbers, yet their mass and mag-netic moment are renormalized [33, 34]. However, at-tempts to extend this framework to understand high-TC

superconductors and the quantum Hall effect have proven largely unsuccessful. In the presence of strong electronic correlations, the breakdown of coherent quasiparticles occurs, and fractional excitations emerge, signaling the failure of conventional Fermi liquid theory in these sys-tems [6, 17, 35–40]. In Mott insulators, strong on-site Coulomb repulsion localizes electrons and opens a charge gap, thus suppressing low-energy charge fluctuations and giving rise to a rich variety of many-body phenomena 3governed by spin correlations [41, 42]. The parent com-pounds of cuprate superconductors are Mott insulators, which firmly established the crucial role of strong electron correlations in modern condensed matter physics [43, 44]. Geometrically frustrated lattices in Mott insulators pro-vide an opportunity to study magnetic phases without conventional symmetry breaking, characterized instead by non-local order parameters [6, 17]. Kagome, triangu-lar, and pyrochlore antiferromagnets with geometric frus-tration provide platforms for observing exotic quantum spin liquid states (QSLs) [45, 46]. In QSLs, excitations like spinons are inherently nonlocal disturbances of the underlying ground state, and a single quasiparticle can-not be created alone but in multiplets [47]. The non-local order does not break any spin rotational or translational symmetry, thereby resulting in no Bragg peaks, which makes it difficult to identify the ground state of QSLs using standard probes. Early studies on disordered metals, such as CuMn and AuFe, where Mn or Fe magnetic elements are doped onto nonmagnetic hosts, have revealed unusual spin glass be-havior [48–50]. Below a characteristic temperature Tg ,the magnetic moments freeze in a random manner with-out spatial coherence below Tg . With time, the system evolves from one metastable state to other by crossing the thermal energy barrier [51]. The complex nature of spin glasses has attracted extensive study in order to under-stand the non-equilibrium states of matter. Understand-ing spin glasses exemplifies the deep curiosity in physics to solve many fundamental problems [52, 53]. Whether the spin glass transition is a true phase transition remains ambiguous to date. However, in spin glasses, there can be two fundamental classes of excitations: (i) spin-wave modes and (ii) barrier modes. The spin wave, in general, is the small-amplitude fluctuations around the equilib-rium state and the barrier mode excitation involves large-amplitude motions required to overcome the metastable energy barriers [54–57]. In canonical spin glasses, a small amount of magnetic elements, such as Mn or Fe, is doped in a nonmagnetic metal host. Here, the doping of mag-netic moments is below the percolation threshold. In these systems, the interactions between magnetic mo-ments are mediated by conduction electrons via the long-range RKKY (Ruderman–Kittel–Kasuya–Yosida) inter-action [50, 51, 53]. The oscillatory nature of the RKKY interaction accounts for the coupling between magnetic moments to have random exchange signs, resulting in frustration in these metallic systems. In these disordered systems, excitations known as barrier modes are not well-defined because their precise nature remains unclear [52]. Beyond the percolation threshold, where magnetic ele-ments become densely populated, the behavior becomes more complex. Many frustrated magnets exhibit spin-glass-like freezing even with minimal quenched disorder. Here, the weak exchange randomness arising from lattice defects or strain fields can disrupt long-range spatial co-herence and stabilize a frozen ground state [58–61]. The geometric frustration gives rise to a macroscopically de-generate ground state. Associated with magnetic frus-tration, the emergent degrees of freedom can arise. In the kagome frustrated antiferromagnet, the spin folding resulting from the degeneracy can give rise to topologi-cal constraints [62, 63]. The folding of spins gives rise to slow spin dynamics. This slowing down of spin dynamics is also evidenced in other frustrated systems due to the gradual slowing down of Z2 fluxes in Kitaev magnets [64], the proliferation of Z2 vortices in triangular antiferro-magnets [65, 66], and the movement of Dirac strings in classical spin ices (see Fig. 1(b)-(e)) [67, 68]. However, the weakly disordered and disorder-free spin glass may fall into the same category. The theoretical study indi-cates that a small amount of quenched disorder interacts with intrinsic topological degrees of freedom, enhancing or stabilizing the frozen state [61, 69]. In the limit of clean or minimally disordered spin glass Mott insulators, spontaneous symmetry breaking may lead to the emergence of Goldstone modes [54, 70, 71]. For this, the underlying Hamiltonian needs to preserve the rotational symmetry [55, 72]. These low-energy Gold-stone modes in frustrated spin glasses are associated with a topological origin that is distinct from those observed in canonical spin glasses [62, 73, 74]. Experimental obser-vations reveal the presence of a “spin jam” state in geo-metrically frustrated systems, where frustration-induced quantum fluctuations and minimal quenched disorder to stabilize a frozen yet complex ground state [56, 74–76]. This highlights how geometric frustration, along with topological constraints, plays a key role in driving uncon-ventional glassy behavior. As we categorize ordered mag-nets as spin solids and disordered ones as spin liquid, we can classify these frustrated spin glasses as “spin nematic glasses” or “topological spin glasses”, where frustration yields short-range spin correlations driven glassy state plus soft modes from underlying emergent gauge fields. In an analogy to topological spin glasses, a recent study on glasses by Wu et al. showed that the structural defects can be revealed by the topology of the vibrational eigen-modes instead of the spatial structure alone [77, 78]. The findings reveal that plasticity in glasses has a topological origin. The color map in Fig. 1(f) indicates the spa-tial distribution of negatively charged topological defects arising from the vibration eigenmodes, and the white crosses mark the location of plastic events. A strong spa-tial correlation is observed, where plastic events occur in regions with high densities of negative defects. These regions are prone to mechanical instability. Just as nega-tive defects predict plastic events, similarly, the topolog-ical defects in frustrated magnets can deform the smooth energy landscape in the proximity of QSLs. While canonical spin glasses have been widely studied and reviewed over the years [53, 79], the idea of topo-logical spin freezing has received far less attention. In this review, we aim to provide a comprehensive overview of unconventional spin freezing of topological origin ob-served in promising different magnetic lattices. This re-view sheds deep insights into some of the key experimen-40      

> Im 𝜓
> Re𝜓
> 𝜓
> 𝜙
> 𝑉 (𝜓 )
> Charge density wave 𝜌 CDW
> Superconducting p 𝐚𝐢𝐫 𝐝𝐞𝐧𝐬𝐢𝐭𝐲 𝐰𝐚𝐯𝐞 ΔPDW

# (a) 

# (b) 

# (c) 

# (d) 

# (e) 

# (f) 

FIG. 1. Symmetry-breaking versus constraint-driven routes to emergent low-energy states in frustrated mag-nets. (a,b) Symmetry-broken phases. (a) In systems with spontaneously broken continuous symmetries, the energy landscape often resembles a “Mexican-hat" profile, where low-energy, gapless excitations (orange path) slide tangentially along the ring of degenerate states, analogous to Goldstone modes. Radial distortions (red path) involve amplitude fluctuations associated with finite energy gaps. (b) Representative examples of ordered states characterized by a nonzero order parameter, such as spin-density-wave and Cooper-pair condensates, illustrating spontaneous breaking of continuous symmetries. (c–e) Constraint-driven phases. (c) Kagome lattice showing the formation of open spin fold excitations in the ground states of 

q = 0 spin configurations, illustrating the emergence of spin folds as quasi-localized topological defects. (d) Pyrochlore Ising lattice depicting topological defects as magnetic monopoles connected by Dirac strings, characteristic of spin ice systems. (e) Kitaev honeycomb lattice with bond-dependent Ising interactions, where S = 1 /2 spins form conserved Z2 fluxes around each hexagon, representing emergent topological charges. (f) Nonhierarchical energy landscape of a spin jam, characterized by a broad, nearly flat bottom, representing the coexistence of numerous metastable states separated by nonhierarchical barriers, indicative of jammed, non-ergodic dynamics. Source: (f) adapted from [74] with permission from PNAS. 

tal signatures and the role of external perturbations that are essential for the design, growth, and investigation of novel quantum materials to realize exotic phenomena with potential technological relevance. For the reader’s convenience, we first revisit the phenomena of symmetry breaking, ergodicity, and the canonical spin glass. We then examine the hydrodynamic theory and the spin-jam picture, both of which provide complementary insights into exotic collective excitations in the topological spin freezing state of a broad class of promising frustrated magnets. Next, we review complementary experimental probes, including thermodynamic measurements, as well as microscopic techniques such as nuclear magnetic reso-nance (NMR), muon spin resonance ( μSR), and inelastic neutron scattering (INS), which reveal both the static and dynamic aspects of topological spin freezing over a broad frequency window. We conclude the review with prospects for topological spin freezing, including tech-nological relevance, future research directions, strategies for the design and investigation of novel frustrated quan-tum materials to address challenges in contemporary con-densed matter and materials science, and potential ap-plications. 

II. Theoretical Framework A. Symmetry and Ergodicity Breaking in Complex Spin Systems 

The phase transition in most condensed matter sys-tems is associated with the spontaneous breaking of con-tinuous symmetry [80]. The breakdown of a contin-5uous global symmetry gives rise to gapless collective modes known as Nambu–Goldstone modes in conven-tional magnets [81, 82]. This low-energy excitation, the Nambu–Goldstone mode, traverses the continuous man-ifold of symmetry-related degenerate ground states and dominates the low-temperature physics of complex many-body systems. A quintessential visualization of this phe-nomenon can be represented through a “Mexican hat" potential energy landscape with a continuous ring of min-ima (Fig. 1(a)) [83], which captures the essential physics: when the energy is minimized along the brim, the en-ergy cost of spin fluctuations becomes vanishingly small in that direction and gives rise to Goldstone modes, while radial direction (amplitude) spin fluctuations cor-respond to gapped and cost finite-energy, often called Anderson-Higgs modes [84, 85]. The Mexican-hat po-tential as shown in Fig. 1(a) represents the free-energy landscape of a complex order parameter, ψ = |ψ|eiϕ ,where |ψ| corresponds to amplitude (Higgs) fluctuations and ϕ is the phase (Goldstone) degree of freedom. In condensed matter physics, the Higgs mode emerges in a variety of symmetry breaking states such as supercon-ductors [84, 86, 87], superfluids [88], charge density waves (CDW) [89–91], and uniaxial antiferromagnets [92, 93]. Unlike the relativistic version in particle physics, the Higgs mode in condensed matter physics is difficult to detect experimentally. This is because the Higgs mode is a scalar excitation with no spin, charge, or other quan-tum numbers, so it does not couple linearly to electro-magnetic fields, which is why it is difficult to observe using conventional spectroscopic techniques. With ad-vances in experimental techniques, it has become pos-sible to detect the Higgs mode using intense terahertz pulses in superconductors, as well as through nonlinear processes such as Raman scattering or pump–probe spec-troscopy [86, 87, 94–96]. In CDW, Fermi surface nesting driven by electron-phonon coupling distorts the lattice and breaks translational symmetry (Fig. 1(b)), resulting in the opening of a gap at the Fermi level [97]. A pseudo-vector-like Higgs mode was identified through quantum pathway interference in Raman scattering in RTe 3 (R = La, Gd) CDWs, which carries finite angular momentum arising from inter-orbital electronic coupling [98]. Simi-larly, in pair density wave (PDW) superconductors, the amplitude of the superconducting pairing |ψ| oscillates periodically in space so that the spatial average of the superconducting order becomes zero [99]. This uncon-ventional superconductor hosts two distinct Higgs modes corresponding to in-phase and out-of-phase oscillations of the modulated order parameter, whereas a single Higgs mode exists in a conventional superconductor [100]. In certain low-dimensional antiferromagnets near the quan-tum critical point, the easy-axis anisotropy can create a magnon gap such that the magnon mode lies in higher energies and the Higgs mode remains stable by prevent-ing its decay into spin wave modes [101]. In frustrated quantum spin ice systems, the Higgs modes are proposed to emerge when the deconfined Coulomb phase transi-tions to an ordered magnetic state via the condensa-tion of magnetic monopoles [102–104]. Experimentally, this is evident from the disappearance of gapless pinch-point correlations and the appearance of gapped collec-tive modes in neutron spectra. Recent theoretical studies suggest that the Higgs phase behaves like a spin glass in Higgs-gauge theories where global custodial symmetry is spontaneously broken [105, 106]. In general, conventional phases of matter are organized by an order parameter manifold arising from spontaneous symmetry breaking. However, in frustrated magnets, the degeneracy is not merely due to global spin rotation but due to local constraints imposed by lattice geom-etry and interaction anisotropy, which select particular non-collinear or spin-liquid configurations and often give rise to emergent gauge structures and modified Goldstone spectra [13, 17, 61, 107, 108]. As a result, the phase space of a frustrated spin system is fragmented into distinct regions which are separated by topological defects [109– 113]. These defects are vortices, Z2 fluxes, spin folds, or monopoles, and their physical nature depends on the underlying symmetry and dimensionality (Fig. 1(c-e)). In such systems, the energy landscape evolves from a simple Mexican-hat form to a complex, nonhierarchical structure (Fig. 1(f)) with many degenerate states. In Fig. 1, we have schematically illustrated the progression from symmetry-breaking phase to constrained manifold in various frustrated spin systems and eventually to non-hierarchical energy landscape of topological spin glasses whose details are addressed in subsequent sections. The above studies exemplify how emergent order arising from a change in the material’s underlying topology or sym-metry can give rise to new collective modes. In conventional ferromagnets, the rotational symmetry SO(3) is broken spontaneously. As a result, a low-energy excitation is produced, known as magnons, which man-ifest as the Goldstone modes of the ordered state. The dynamics of these modes can be modeled through the precessional motion of spins and the Fourier-transformed spin field Sk(t) = R d3r S(r, t )eik·r, which evolves with a well-defined frequency spectrum. The coherent excita-tions are directly probed by neutron scattering, which reveals sharp and dispersive modes that are characteris-tic of magnetically ordered systems. In contrast, topo-logical spin glasses challenge this conventional character-ization. Instead of having sharp Bragg peaks in neutron scattering, they show broad, continuum-like excitations. These systems possess a small fraction of frozen moments embedded within a predominantly dynamic spin back-ground [60, 69, 74]. Topological spin glasses show un-conventional low-energy excitations without long-range magnetic order, as revealed by specific heat, INS, and NMR. Experimentally finding these unconventional ex-citations motivates deeper theoretical investigation with appropriate models [53, 62, 74]. Halperin and Saslow (HS) provided an early frame-work that states that spin glasses can host collective low-energy modes, analogous to Goldstone modes, even with-6out conventional magnetic ordering [55]. These Gold-stone modes originate from the frozen but spatially ran-dom local magnetization of the system, which possesses a finite spin stiffness and supports long-wavelength ex-citations associated with symmetry breaking [55]. Un-like magnons in regular ordered magnets, the eigenvec-tors of collective excitations in spin glasses are not simple plane waves; instead, they are spatially disordered super-positions of Fourier components. The long-wavelength averaging behavior exactly mirrors that of the acoustic phonons in structural glasses, where collective vibrational coherence survives in atomic-level disorder [54]. Mod-els such as the isotropic Mattis spin glass confirm that the frequency of these excitations scales linearly with wavevector k, which is consistent with the HS frame-work [114]. The HS theory generalizes the Goldstone theorem to disordered glassy systems, where the neces-sity of broken symmetry survives even in the absence of long-range order. These modes in spin glasses are called HS modes, which encode not only the topology of the energy landscape [62, 73] but also the emergent rigidity in glassy states [55]. Understanding the link between symmetry breaking and spin glass behavior necessitates revisiting Anderson’s notion of generalized rigidity [80, 115]. The rigidity ex-plains how a force applied at one point in a solid that propagates coherently across the entire system, which extends over distances many orders of magnitude larger than the range of microscopic interactions. This also ex-plains why solids resist shear, why magnets exhibit col-lective spin alignment that results in long-range ordered magnetic phases, and why supercurrents flow persistently without dissipation. Though the glassy systems do not exhibit conven-tional order, the nature and origin of rigidity remain elu-sive [52], and this long-standing puzzle invites revisiting in the context of frustrated magnets, where unconven-tional spin glass behavior is observed in the presence of minimal disorder or in disorder-free conditions. This un-conventional spin glass behavior in a disorder-free system gives a hint at hidden and topological form of rigidity that does not rely on crystalline order [63, 70, 73]. While the symmetry breaking concept provides us with an understanding of the emergent phases of matter, the dynamical counterpart of these phases is governed by the principle of ergodicity. The assumption deeply rooted in equilibrium statistical mechanics, the concept underlying ergodicity asserts that the time averages are equivalent to the ensemble averages [116]. This means that if one waits a sufficient amount of time, a system will explore all accessible microstates consistent with its energy. This er-godicity assumption fails dramatically in spin glass below the freezing temperature Tg [117]. The spin glass system becomes trapped in a subset of configuration space in the energy landscape, thus it is unable to fully explore its phase space within experimentally relevant timescales-the ergodicity is broken [53]. This ergodicity breakdown arises due to a complex free energy landscape, which con-sists of enormous metastable minima separated by finite energy barriers [118]. As a result, the system exhibits aging and memory effects and loses self-averaging [119]. Above the freezing temperature Tg , thermal fluctuations are sufficient to overcome the energy barrier, and the system behaves as a paramagnet, thereby restoring er-godicity. Below Tg , the system becomes arrested in one of the metastable minima and the relaxation time of the system diverges so that the macroscopic observables no longer reflect equilibrium properties but instead probe a frozen snapshot of the system’s phase space [53]. The phenomenon of ergodicity breaking in spin glasses re-flects a broader class of non-ergodic phenomena in quan-tum many-body systems, where interactions among spins fail to ensure thermalization and instead confine the dy-namics to restricted regions of Hilbert space—setting the system apart from diverse settings such as many-body localization and quantum scars in Rydberg atom arrays [117, 120–122]. As disorder and frustration in-hibit thermal relaxation, the spin glass does not explore its phase space fully and thereby stabilizing emergent non-ergodic phases. The non-ergodic phases challenge the conventional thermodynamic framework and demand new approaches to elaborate their out-of-equilibrium dy-namics and statistical behaviors. In conventional second-order phase transitions, such as the paramagnet to ferro-magnet transition at the Curie temperature TC , the free energy can be expressed in the Landau paradigm as: [123] 

F = F0 + a(T )M 2 + bM 4 + . . . , (1) where a(T ) ∼ (T − TC), F0, b > 0 and M is magneti-zation as the order parameter of the system with time-reversal symmetry. Below Curie temperature TC, the system undergoes spontaneous symmetry breaking and selects one of two degenerate minima at M = ±M0,which leads to macroscopic magnetization aligned either up or down. Although this selection of the system divides it into two disjoint subspaces in phase space, ergodicity is still preserved within each subspace, where the sys-tem fully explores microstates consistent with the chosen magnetization [124]. Unlike ferromagnets, the spin glass states do not possess a clear symmetry-related phase space structure and do not partition the phase space into well-defined ergodic components. Instead, the system be-comes dynamically confined within a local basin in con-figuration space, unable to explore the full ensemble even over experimental timescales [53, 118]. The breakdown of ergodicity does not happen only in disordered magnets. Instead, there occurs a broader class of non-equilibrating many-body phenomena, including many-body localized phases [120], quantum many-body scars [125], and discrete time crystals [126], in which each state is stabilized by hidden constraints that prevent con-ventional thermalization. Rather than focusing solely on ergodicity breaking, a unified perspective can con-sider how field theory and statistical mechanics encode such constraints. For instance, the emergence of topolog-ical defects in symmetry-broken phases gives rise to the 7Disorder  Frustration 

> Localization

𝐽 (𝑟 )

𝑟 0      

> FIG. 2. The Ruderman–Kittel–Kasuya–Yosida (RKKY) interaction . The RKKY interaction oscillates in sign and magnitude as a function of interatomic distance, leading to competing ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic couplings between dilute magnetic moments. These randomly distributed interactions generate magnetic frustration. The inset shows a lattice with dilute magnetic atoms embedded in a nonmagnetic matrix, illustrating the presence of quenched disorder and spatial inhomogeneity. The interplay between magnetic frustration, disorder, and localization gives rise to spin freezing in metallic spin glasses. Adapted from the ref. [52] with permission.

rugged free-energy landscapes of spin glasses [127, 128]. When such a system is cooled rapidly, distinct regions of phase space may fall into different minima, result-ing in topological defects such as domain walls, vortices, or monopoles whose nature depends on the symmetry and dimensionality (Fig. 1). Analogous to spin glasses, below the freezing temperature Tg during cooling, the system breaks into many metastable configurations ex-ponentially, which can be interpreted as the emergence of “defect-like" structures in configuration space. These structures are not topological in real space, but they are topologically protected in phase space, where the sys-tem cannot transition between two states without cross-ing large free energy barriers. A bridge between glassy dynamics and field-theoretic descriptions of symmetry breaking hints at the deep structure behind the rugged free energy landscapes, which is responsible for ergodicity breaking in the same way. The glassiness in disordered magnets, defect formation in field theories, or localization in quantum matter can be viewed through a common lens of constrained dynamics and fragmented phase space.  

> B. Canonical Spin Glass

Complexity in nature is an inevitable phenomenon that prevails everywhere. The general definition of complex-ity is challenging to articulate, although key features in-clude nonlinearity, randomness, localization, and hierar-chy. Most of the emergent phenomena that occur around us involve complexity. Therefore, understanding the na-ture of complexity is crucial to comprehending the funda-mental laws of nature. For more than half a century, the study of canonical spin glass has revealed the complexity of the disordered systems in condensed matter physics [53], providing valuable insights with significant applica-tions across the disciplines, such as neural networks [129], computer science, and environmental science [52]. Spin glass physics originated from early studies of magnetic properties and resonance effects in diluted magnetic al-loys. In canonical spin glasses such as AuFe or CuMn, a small fraction (less than a few percent) of magnetic elements like Fe or Mn resides on a non-magnetic sub-strate [48, 49, 130–132]. The Kondo effect is a phe-nomenon observed in these alloys at low concentrations of magnetic impurities, where the conduction electrons form cluster singlets with localized magnetic moments, which is reflected in the electrical resistance [133]. As the concentration of magnetic impurities increases beyond a certain threshold, the system undergoes a transition into a spin glass state. In canonical spin glasses below the freezing tempera-ture Tg , each spin develops a nonzero local magnetiza-tion ( mi = ⟨Si⟩̸ = 0 ), even though the total magneti-zation of the sample remains zero ( M = P 

> i

mi/N = 0 ,where N is the total number of moments. The local-ized moments interact via the long-range RKKY interac-tion [48, 134, 135]. The RKKY interaction is an indirect exchange coupling mediated by conduction electrons that become spin-polarized through their interaction with lo-calized magnetic moments. Its interaction strength J(r)

varies with distance r as J(r) ∝ cos(2 kFr + φ)/(kFr)3

where kF is the Fermi wave vector and φ is a phase factor (Fig. 2). The RKKY interaction requires itin-erant electrons to mediate the exchange coupling, so it is highly unlikely to occur in Mott insulator spin glasses, where strong electron correlations localize electrons and suppress conduction. However, in some Mott insulators, similar indirect exchange interactions can occur via other mobile excitations. For example, in Mott insulator spin glass SrLaGaRuO 6 [136], RKKY-like interactions can arise that are mediated by mobile excitonic states such as Jeff = 1 excitons rather than conduction electrons. Conversely, insulating spin glasses such as Eu xSr 1−xSand Eu xSr 1−xTe, exhibit frustration due to competing ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic interactions among nearest and next nearest neighbors [137–139]. Here, we discuss the early models proposed for under-standing the mechanism behind the canonical spin glass. In 1975, Edwards and Anderson (EA) proposed a short-range Ising Hamiltonian [51]: HEA = P 

> ⟨i,j ⟩

Jij SiSj ,8where Si = ±1 represents spin variables, and Jij de-notes the exchange interaction strength between spins Si

and Sj . In the EA model, interactions are limited to nearest neighbors in a regular lattice, resulting in O(N )

coupling terms for a system of N spins. The quenched disorder is introduced by random exchange parameters 

Jij , which follow a Gaussian distribution with zero mean and variance J2: P (Jij ) = 1√2πJ 2 exp 



− J2

> ij
> 2J2



. The low-temperature spin-glass phase can be distinguished from the high-temperature paramagnetic state using an order parameter q. This order parameter is defined as the time-dependent correlation of a spin Si at time t = 0 with itself at a later time t: q = 1

> N

PNi=1 ⟨Si(0) · Si(t)⟩. q

measures how much a spin “remembers" its initial ori-entation or how much overlap to its previous spin con-figuration as time evolves. This memory in the spin-glass phase persists even over longer times t. As a re-sult, the system gives a nonzero value of q, while in the high temperature paramagnetic phase, the system loses this memory over time and q value falls to zero. The EA order parameter in spin glasses reveals tem-poral ordering, which manifests through broken ergod-icity and slow relaxation dynamics, in contrast to the conventional magnet with long-range order. Palmer ex-panded this framework to non-equilibrium systems by introducing the notion of broken ergodicity [117], in which the system becomes dynamically confined within metastable regions of phase space. The EA order pa-rameter ( qEA ) measures over the long-time behavior of local spin correlations in a quenched disordered sample and can be written as: qEA = 1

> N

PNi=1 

 ⟨Si⟩2  

> J

=

> 1
> N

PNi=1 

h

lim t→∞ ⟨Si(0) Si(t)⟩

i

> J

, where ⟨·⟩ denotes the thermal average and [·]J is the average over different dis-order realizations. At absolute zero temperature, qEA is 1, indicating completely frozen spins. While above the Tg

in the classical Ising spin glass, it drops to zero. Between 

0 < T < T g , qEA takes a finite value, reflecting partial freezing of spin orientations. The zero-field solution of the EA model predicts a Curie-Weiss-like temperature dependence of the magnetic susceptibility: χ(T ) = 1−qT ,assuming kB = 1 . This susceptibility shows a cusp at 

Tg [140], signaling the onset of the spin glass transition. Specific heat calculations within the model suggest a sin-gularity near Tg , but experiments on spin glasses usually show a broad maximum in specific heat around Tg . This discrepancy could arise because thermal measurements are often performed over timescales too short for the spins to fully equilibrate in spin glasses [141]. Crucially, the EA model predicts no finite-temperature spin glass transition in one- and two-dimensional systems with short-range in-teractions [53, 142]. In three dimensions, the existence of a true thermodynamic spin glass transition remains a subject of ongoing debate, although numerical evidence supports the phase transition [143–145]. In the limit of infinite spatial dimensions, the EA model maps onto the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick (SK) model, which clearly exhibits a finite-temperature spin glass transition [146]. Moreover, a finite-temperature transition has been re-ported in four-dimensional systems [143, 145, 147]. The theoretical calculations on EA model predict that the lower critical dimension for the existence of a spin glass phase is Dc = 2 .5 [148]. The canonical spin-glass phase is characterized by a highly complex landscape of many metastable states that are not equivalent to each other. This unique form of or-der does not correspond to conventional spatial symme-try breaking but is instead revealed through a detailed distribution of overlaps between different spin configu-rations [149, 150]. While each individual spin behaves as a quantum object with fluctuations, the macroscopic glassy state arises due to collective dynamics that be-come well-defined only in the thermodynamic limit. In the case of spin glasses, it is rather the temporal ordering that is meaningful, describing slow relaxation and aging phenomena in these systems [50, 53]. Spatial symme-tries are spontaneously broken, and spins align steadily in space via dipole moments in the case of conventional magnetic ordering. The spin glass can then be seen as a many-body phenomenon that cannot be explained by its individual components, echoing the concept of ‘More is Different’ [151]. In quantum spin glasses, modeled by Hamiltonians such as H = P 

> ij

Jij ˆSzi ˆSzj + Γ P 

> i

ˆSxi , the competition between static disorder ( Jij ) and quantum fluctuations ( Γ) leads to quantum tunneling between var-ious metastable states [152]. One of the main challenges in investigating canonical spin glasses is understanding the nature of their low-energy excitations. It was pro-posed in the spin wave theory of these disordered met-als that the Goldstone-like modes may survive even in the presence of strong disorder [55, 153–155]. However, their direct experimental observation has so far remained elusive [54]. Dzyaloshinskii and Volovik further stressed that the coupling to barrier modes conceals such excita-tions [153]. Still, locally rotational symmetry breaking may give rise to the localized collective modes [154]. Al-though spatial inhomogeneity tends to localize the spin waves and limit their mobility [156], several extended spin wave modes still persist.  

> C. Emergent Glassiness in Frustrated Quantum Magnets

The key features of glassy dynamics are slow relax-ation, memory effects, and ergodicity breaking, which have conventionally been linked to quenched disorder. The complexity gives rise to an energy landscape full of metastable states. However, recent studies provide many examples in which glassy behavior arises from in-trinsic factors such as geometrical constraints or kinetic limitations that prevent the system from fully accessing its available Hilbert space [73, 157, 158]. Before dis-cussing topological spin glasses in frustrated magnets, it is helpful to consider examples where the nature of 9dynamical arrest occurs. Fracton phases of matter pro-vide a remarkable example where the motion of individ-ual excitations is not restricted due to energy barriers, because of subsystem symmetries and emergent conser-vation laws [159, 160]. Nontrivial topological sectors can lead to disconnected regions in configuration space, mak-ing transitions between them dynamically forbidden or exponentially slow. For example, loop constraints in quantum dimer models or emergent gauge charges in spin liquids can effectively pin the system into a glassy state [161]. This reveals a broader principle: glassy dynamics can be an emergent, stable property of con-strained many-body systems, where the complexity of the energy landscape arises not from external disorder but from the internal architecture of interactions and symme-tries. Many disorder-free glassy systems exhibit a funda-mental characteristic: a macroscopically degenerate man-ifold of low-energy states, which usually arises from geo-metric or topological frustration [62]. The energy land-scape in these systems consists of many local minima, which keeps the system in metastable states and hinders relaxation. A notable instance is the quantum model on an octahedral spin lattice, wherein frustration combined with kinetic constraints in the Hilbert space, results in dynamically arrested behavior, despite the Hamiltonian’s translational invariance [157]. The number of low-energy states that can be reached in both frustrated magnetic systems and constrained quantum models grows expo-nentially with the size of the system, N (E ≲ ϵ) ∼ eαN .However, quantum tunneling among these states is ex-ponentially terminated, which makes the timescales very different and stops equilibration with accessible experi-mental or numerical timescales. Another important mechanism of non-ergodicity is the appearance of local integrals of motion, which break up the Hilbert space into different sectors. This phe-nomenon represents a variant of disorder-free localiza-tion, similar to many-body localization. It has been shown in constrained quantum lattice models that a pro-liferation of dynamical symmetries limits the system’s evolution [162, 163]. The effective Hamiltonian is com-patible with a large set of commuting operators {Qi},each satisfying [H, Q i] = 0 for all i. These constraints create an exponentially large number of disconnected subspaces, which makes the dynamics non-ergodic and results in an initial-state-dependent relaxation, exhibit-ing memory effects similar to those seen in structural glasses. A system near a quantum critical point (QCP) can exhibit glass-like behavior due to the profound sensi-tivity of their many-body ground states, even without quenched disorder. This phenomenon can be heuristi-cally connected to the Anderson’s orthogonality catastro-phe in gapless Fermi systems, demonstrating how many low-energy modes induce ground states highly sensitive to local perturbations [164]. In the language of ground-state fidelity, the overlap between ground states at pa-rameters g and g + δg , F = |⟨ ψ(g) | ψ(g + δg )⟩| , mea-sures how sensitive the many-body wavefunction is to infinitesimal perturbations. For small δg , this overlap is controlled by the fidelity susceptibility χF , such that 

F ≈ exp − 12 χF δg 2. The fidelity susceptibility χF

shows a strong dependence on system size and scales uni-versally with the critical exponents near a QCP. Even very small changes to the parameters can cause nonper-turbative reorganizations of the many-body wavefunc-tion, which breaks adiabatic continuity [165–167]. That enhanced sensitivity can make local changes more pow-erful and favor long-lived nonthermal behavior, which provides a clean route toward dynamically arrested re-laxation. Kinematic constraints, conserved quantities, and topology can break up the Hilbert space into many subspaces that are not well connected with each other, and can lead to disorder-free glassiness [160, 168, 169]. In this case, local moves can’t connect different sectors well, which engender relaxation and memory effects hap-pen slowly, even when the energy density is finite. In nu-merous physical systems, especially frustrated magnets exhibiting limited local dynamics, proximity to critical-ity (which increases fragility) in conjunction with these constraints can yield resilient, disorder-free glassy dy-namics [157]. These results depend upon various fun-damental mechanisms. A QCP by itself does not cause universal glassiness or fragmentation of Hilbert space, in-stead, the resulting glassy dynamics are determined by the particular microscopic constraints and conservation laws inherent to the system. Topologically ordered systems host certain local ex-citations that are intrinsically immobile due to global conservation laws. Mainly in fracton models, quasi-particles may only move collectively or along restricted subspaces, which leads to severely suppressing dynam-ics [160, 170, 171]. These kinematic constraints do not arise from energetic barriers of the energy landscape but from the inherent topological structure, which gives the system ultra-slow, glassy dynamics. The dynami-cal glass phase unable to be resolved through any lo-cal operator, which is a key point of a stable dynamical glass phase emerging from topological order [159]. All of these diverse mechanisms reveal that emergent glassi-ness can originate from deep structural features of the system’s Hilbert space and dynamical constraints, rather than from extrinsic disorder. In frustrated spin glasses, self-generated complexity that destabilizes thermaliza-tion leading to non-ergodic phases in either generated by frustration induced degeneracy, topological constraints, local integrals of motion or critical sensitivity. The study of glassiness without disorder prompts a reevaluation of the conventional taxonomy of phases and suggests a uni-fying framework for ergodicity breaking, rooted in the geometry and topology of the quantum many-body wave-function. The physics of spin freezing in highly frustrated quantum materials is quite intricate owing to topologi-cal order, a complex energy landscape, massive ground state degeneracy, unavoidable disorder, and non-trivial low-energy excitations that are manifested in thermody-10 namics and microscopic experiments such as μSR, NMR, and INS. The HS hydrodynamic framework and spin jam theory offer simple prototype models to elucidate some of the intricacies in frustrated magnetic materials [55–57].  

> D. Hydrodynamic Formalism of Spin Glasses

Halperin–Saslow (HS) theory proposed a hydrody-namic model for low-energy excitations in disordered magnets, where the local spin configurations break con-tinuous rotational symmetry, even in the absence of long-range magnetic order [55, 172]. In this frame-work, a frozen spin configuration with finite spin stiffness provides collective support for the emergence of long-wavelength modes analogous to Goldstone excitations. These modes exhibit a linear dispersion ω ∼ k, leading to gapless excitations that arise below the freezing tem-perature. A key consequence is a characteristic power-law contribution to thermodynamic responses, such as 

Cm ∼ T D for linear modes, yielding Cm ∼ T 2 in two-dimensional systems [57]. Including an anisotropy term in the macroscopic free energy lifts the degeneracy of the spin-wave spectrum: the transverse modes develop a finite energy gap at k = 0 ,, and the longitudinal mode can hybridize with the trans-verse modes, with the degree of mixing determined by the relative orientation of the remanent magnetization, the anisotropy axis, and the applied magnetic field [173]. For a simple uniaxial anisotropy of strength K, Saslow showed that the gap magnitude scales as ∆ ∼ γ

q Kχ , so that even weak anisotropy shifts the resonance away from zero frequency. Henley et al. further demonstrated that for Dzyaloshinskii–Moriya–type randomness the effective anisotropy takes the form of a unidirectional “ cos θ” term, which leads to three coupled modes at k = 0 whose fre-quencies depend sensitively on the angle between the re-manent magnetization, the anisotropy axis, and the ap-plied field [174]. The eigenvalue problem showed that in some high-symmetry setups, one transverse mode re-mains gapless while the others acquire finite frequencies. While for general orientations, all three modes become intermixed and exhibit gapped excitation spectra [173]. The anisotropy does not just change the spin wave ve-locity. It also changes the low-energy dynamics in a way that creates finite-frequency resonances and angle-dependent spectral weight that can be measured with ESR or neutron scattering. Andreev et al. [175] and Ginzburg [176] studied the existence of collective excita-tions in spin glasses and providede the dynamics of small angular fluctuations around a disordered, frozen spin con-figuration. Their approach goes beyond macroscopic hy-drodynamics but links the low-energy excitations to a microscopic model of randomly interacting spins. The time evolution of spin precession equations, where each spin Si is considered as a vector of substantial magnitude 

S in the classical limit: 

dSi

dt = X

> j

Jij Si × Sj , (2) where Jij represents the coupling exchange interaction between spins located at i and j. Beginning with a sta-ble and quenched spin arrangement S(0)  

> i

, the dynamics of low-energy excitations can be examined by incorporat-ing infinitesimal angular perturbations φi which describe local rotations written as: 

Si = S(0)  

> i

+ 2 φi × S(0)  

> i

. (3) Assuming a stable and quenched spin configuration S(0)  

> i

,one considers small deviations φi as local angular rota-tions of the form: 

Si = S(0)  

> i

+ 2 φi × S(0)  

> i

. (4) After linearizing the equations of motion with respect to these angular variables, we obtain a second-order differ-ential system: 

d2φi

dt 2 = − X

> j

Λij φj , (5) where Λij is a stiffness matrix that depends on the spin configuration and the disorder in Jij . In the long-wavelength limit, the solutions are modulated plane waves that follow a linear dispersion relation of the form 

ωk = c|k|, where c is the spin-wave velocity, which comes from microscopic parameters as c2 = ρ 

> ⟨χ⟩

, with ρ be-ing a positive-definite coefficient that relates to the dis-tribution of torques in the system and ⟨χ⟩ being the average local magnetic susceptibility. These soft exci-tations arise from the rotational symmetry of the spin configuration, despite the absence of global magnetic or-der. The presence of such modes in disordered magnetic systems can still leads to coherent, propagating excita-tions, which complements the microscopic picture of the hydrodynamic theory, offering a first-principles deriva-tion of similar Goldstone-like modes in spin glasses [176]. The hydrodynamic framework establishes the essential continuum field theory for the unique topological spin glass and topological order with non-trivial low-energy modes, which directly explains the experimental obser-vation of unusual low-frequency magnetic noise, uncon-ventional thermodynamic properties, and extremely slow spin dynamics.  

> E. Spin Jam Formalism

A “spin jam" is a distinct class of glassy states found in densely populated frustrated magnets, where frustra-tion and quantum effects play a crucial role in stabilizing this state. Unlike canonical spin glasses, where disorder 11 plays a significant role in inducing glassy behavior, spin jams emerge from a highly ordered, crystalline environ-ment [75]. This state is particularly relevant in transition metal-based frustrated oxides, where the nearest neigh-bors interact via the Heisenberg interaction. The energy landscape of a spin jam state features a rugged but nearly flat bottom with large degenerate states corresponding to different locally collinear configurations [177]. To under-stand the energy landscape, which is influenced by quan-tum fluctuations, the Holstein–Primakoff representation of the Heisenberg Hamiltonian: H = J P 

> ⟨i,j ⟩

Si · Sj to calculate the spin wave. By expanding the square roots to the lowest order in 1/S , the Hamiltonian is approximated as a quadratic Holstein–Primakoff Hamiltonian [73]: 

HHP = EM F + JS X

> ⟨i,j ⟩

h

h(1) ,ij a† 

> i

aj + h(2) ,ij a† 

> i

a† 

> j

+ h.c. 

i

.

Here EM F is the mean field energy of the spin configu-ration. The free energy contributions, including thermal corrections and zero-point energy, are calculated from the following hamiltonian : 

F = EM F − kB T X

> k,a

log 



1 − eℏωk,a /k B T 

+ X

> k,a

ℏωk,a 

2

, where the sum is over the Brillouin zone and α is band index. The second term is the thermal energy correc-tions, and the third term refers to the zero point en-ergy. For a system in the long-range ordered states, the quadratic Hamiltonian is diagonalized in momentum space, while for non-ordered states, a real-space treat-ment is employed, where symplectic diagonalization is in-volved to obtain ground state properties. The emergence of low-energy modes, referred as the HS modes, gives a response in the low-temperature thermodynamic behav-ior. The specific heat Cv and the imaginary part of the dynamic susceptibility χ′′ (ω) are described by, Cv ∝ T 2

and χ′′ (ω) ∝ ω [57]. These behaviors directly highlight the linearly dispersive nature of HS modes, and their contribution stabilizes the spin jam state, which is in sharp contrast with conventional spin glasses. The freez-ing temperature Tg for the spin jam state is governed by the interplay of the quantum energy cost ESW to flip a set of spins and the temperature-dependent correlation length ξ(T ) of the system. The relation between Tg and 

ξ(T ) can be expressed as Tg ∝ F (ESW , ξ (T )) , where F is a function that captures the dependence of Tg on quan-tum energy scales and system correlations. This formal-ism allows us to study how Tg changes with nonmagnetic doping, which is expected to reduce Tg as the distance between the nonmagnetic impurities becomes compara-ble to ξ(T ) [73]. In frustrated magnets, the underlying spin-interacting Hamiltonian shapes the topology of the energy landscape. In a spin solid, the energy landscape has a global mini-mum, and the system falls into an ordered state as a re-sult of magnetic phase transition below the critical tem-perature. However, more complex landscapes with nu-merous local minima result in the system being trapped in metastable states, which give rise to disordered, glassy behavior. To understand the glassy behavior, the idea of rugged energy landscapes is invoked and extends be-yond magnetic systems to other materials like structural glasses, polymers, and neural networks [129]. Canoni-cal spin glasses such as CuMn and AuFe have a rugged energy landscape arising from random exchange inter-actions governed by the RKKY interaction, with the freezing temperature Tg being comparable to the Curie-Weiss temperature |ΘCW |. In contrast, in the spin jam state like SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 (SCGO), the freezing tem-perature is significantly lower than |ΘCW |, which indi-cates fundamentally different energy landscape, shaped by both frustration and quantum effects, distinguishing spin jam behavior from conventional spin glasses. Both canonical spin glasses and spin jams exhibit aging and memory effects, but they differ characteristically. Spin glasses like CuMn show pronounced memory effects even with relatively short waiting times below Tg . In contrast, spin jams, including material like SCGO, show more sub-dued memory effects and slower aging, indicating a flatter and less hierarchical energy landscape with more uniform ruggedness. A detailed discussion of these distinctions and their physical implications is presented in later sec-tions of this paper.  

> III. Experimental Signatures of Topological Spin Freezing

The experimental realization, detection, and elucida-tion of non-trivial spin freezing of topological origin in highly frustrated quantum magnets is highly significant and topical, as it shows distinct experimental signatures associated with competing exchange interactions, disor-der, and topological excitations that are robust against weak perturbations. Understanding of topological spin freezing, which often coexists with dynamic and coop-erative quantum states, is crucial to gain insights into novel quantum states. Probing topological spin freezing via an array of complementary experimental techniques, including thermodynamics, NMR, INS, and μSR aims to provide deep insights into topological spin freezing char-acteristics and associated exotic excitations, such as un-conventional spin textures and exotic low-energy excita-tions over a wide range of time scales in frustrated mag-nets, is pivotal in this context. This sets an attractive platform to address some of the fundamental questions in contemporary condensed matter and potential applica-tions in technologies related to high-density storage and computation.  

> A. Thermodynamic Characteristics

The freezing phenomenon can be examined by the temperature dependence of magnetic susceptibility that shows bifurcation measured following zero field cooled 12 (ZFC) and field cooled (FC) protocols below the spin freezing temperature Tg (Fig. 3 (a)), analogous to canon-ical spin glass behavior. In the ZFC mode, susceptibil-ity shows a linear response ( χlr ) due to thermal fluctua-tions in a metastable state with a long relaxation time. Below the freezing temperature, the spin state is sta-ble, but the magnetic susceptibility increases asymptoti-cally with temperature. In the FC mode, as the material cools under an applied magnetic field, it approaches one of the lowest free energy states, with susceptibility χeq 

representing the average of all ensembles [140]. Sus-ceptibilities in ZFC and FC modes can be expressed as: 

χeq =

 ∂2Feq  

> ∂M 2

−1

, χlr =

 ∂2F∂M 2

−1

. Here, χeq corre-sponds to the equilibrium free energy Feq , and χlr rep-resents the response associated with the metastable free energy F . Since the second derivative of free energy F

measures curvature, χeq > χ lr . This deviation from lin-ear response arises because in FC conditions the system allows exploration of the entire phase space, whereas in ZFC conditions it explores only a subset, a phenomenon known as broken ergodicity characterized by long relax-ation times [117]. The DC magnetic susceptibility carries information about the equilibrium state of the spin glass with static order parameters. Since the spin glass state is a non-equilibrium state that undergoes continuous relax-ation, the AC susceptibility is an appropriate probe for capturing its dynamic nature. The frequency-dependent ac susceptibility ( χAC = χ′ + iχ ′′ ), measured below the spin freezing temperature Tg, offers crucial insight into the complex dynamical behavior of spin glass systems. The real component of it, χ′ corresponds to the in-phase response of the magnetization to an oscillating field and therefore observes reversible and non dissipative pro-cesses such as spin alignment and domain wall motion. However, in glassy magnetic systems, the rapid growth of relaxation time near Tg observed in χ′ indirectly ev-idences the establishment of irreversible dynamics man-ifested by the frequency dependent characteristic cusp. As the probing frequency increases, the observed peak in 

χ′ shifts towards higher temperatures. Because at lower applied frequencies the measurement effectively probes slower spin degrees of freedom; hence it allows more spins to equilibrate and freezing occurs at lower temperatures, whereas at higher frequencies only the highly fluctuat-ing spins contribute to the signals hence freezing occurs at relatively higher temperatures [178]. This frequency-dependent characteristic is widely considered an essential criterion to distinguish the glassy magnetic state from the conventional long-range magnetic ordered state. On the other hand, the imaginary part χ′′ corresponds to the out-of-phase component and energy loss within the sys-tem, displaying a corresponding peak that becomes more prominent at lower frequencies. The frequency depen-dence of both components of AC susceptibility near Tg

is an essential signature of spin glass materials [50, 179]. A true transition of the spin-glass state can be seen in the measurement of nonlinear magnetic susceptibility, which becomes divergent at Tg [50, 53]. In the spin glass state, the orientation of magnetic moments remains static but randomly distributed, so the spatial average of their pairwise correlations is nearly zero i.e., ⟨Si ·Sj ⟩ ≈ 0 [182]. The corresponding spin-glass susceptibility is defined as 

χSG = 1

> N

P

> i,j

⟨Si · Sj ⟩2

> av

, which remains finite and positive in the frozen phase and grows strongly as the system approaches the glass transition. This growth sig-nals the development of long-ranged frozen correlations without conventional spin-rotational symmetry breaking, indicating a genuine thermodynamic transition into a glassy state. Experimentally, this critical behavior is not accessed directly through χSG but through the nonlinear magnetic susceptibility χnl , which quantifies the cubic re-sponse of magnetization to an external field. Expanding the magnetization as M = a1H − a3H3 + . . . , the coef-ficient a3 (or equivalently χnl ) serves as the measurable analogue of χSG [183]. According to mean field theory, 

a3 shows a sharp enhancement as T → Tg which is con-sistent with the growth of correlated spin domains. This divergence in non-linear susceptibility is of fundamental importance. Whereas a cusp in the linear susceptibility can arise from superparamagnetic blocking or dynamical cluster freezing, phenomena lacking a diverging correla-tion length. The enhancement of a3 uniquely signifies the establishment of a true spin-glass transition governed by cooperative freezing of spins. An insightful analogy to understand the intriguing en-ergy landscape of spin glasses can be considered the be-havior of the superfluid 3He in a bucket rotating with angular velocity ω, leading to the formation of quantized vortices [181]. The free energy of the system F is plot-ted against angular velocity and it exhibits a denumer-able set of metastable valleys [140] (Fig. 3(b)). Each valley corresponds to an integer number of vortices and is separated from its neighbors by energy barriers asso-ciated with vortex nucleation. Each valley refers to a conserved topological quantity called the vortex number, which marks distinct regions in the configuration space of the system. As the angular velocity ω changes, the system undergoes a sequence of first order phase tran-sitions leading to abrupt changes in the vortex number, causing discontinuous changes in the angular momentum of the superfluid. This multivalley landscape provides an insightful intermediate case between two extremes: (i) a rotating bucket of superfluid helium, where the cen-tral valley corresponds to zero vortex number and a set of valleys corresponds to higher order vortex numbers. Here, the valleys correspond to a discrete number of vor-tices. (ii) Spin glass, where the distribution of valleys is continuous. A small variation in the angular frequency of the rotating He bucket gives rise to successive first-order phase transitions. Labelling a conserved number for Ising or Heisenberg spin glass to account for the first-order phase transition between continuous valleys still remains an open problem. Mathematically, the analogy can be formalized by com-paring the energy landscapes: 13 Feq 

# Flr 0 5 10 15 20 25 

## 7

## 8

## 9

## 10 

## 11 

## 12 

## FC ZFC 

> c
> (10 -3  emu/mol)

## T (K) 

## H=100 Oe Tg

# (a) 

# F

# 𝜔 

# 𝜔 

# (b) 

𝑛 = 0

𝑛 = 1

𝑛 = 2       

> FIG. 3. Manifestations of broken ergodicity in diverse quantum systems. (a) ZFC–FC bifurcation in the magnetic susceptibility of a disordered Kitaev magnet Li 2RhO 3which exhibits topological spin freezing. The inset illustrates a rugged free-energy landscape comprising a multitude of metastable minima (solid lines), representative of frozen yet fluctuating spin configurations. The field-cooled path (dashed line) reflects traversal through a convex envelope of these states, highlighting the absence of full thermal equilibration below the freezing temperature. (b) Free-energy branches in rotating superfluid 3He (bottom), where discrete vortex states appear as local minima in angular momentum space (top). The piecewise equilibrium curve reveals first-order transitions as the rotation rate is tuned, signaling metastability and quantization. This analogy emphasizes that broken ergodicity—here governed by topological quantization and conservation laws—can arise even in clean, well-defined quantum fluids. Source:(a) adapted from [180] with permission from APS ,(b) adapted from [140, 181] with permission from PNAS.

∗ In superfluid 3He, the free energy can be modeled as Fn(ω) = F0 + 12 I(ω − ωn)2, where ωn ∝ n is the angular velocity at which the n-vortex state becomes stable, and I is the moment of inertia. 

∗ In spin glasses, the free energy landscape F [{⃗Si}]

is highly rugged, with minima separated by energy barriers whose topology or cohomology class is not yet well-defined but may encode nonlocal informa-tion. This analogy reinforces the broader theme of this re-view: topological spin glasses may be understood not just in terms of energy barriers and metastability but through an emergent structure of topologically distinct valleys [62], possibly governed by conserved or quasi-conserved quantities yet to be identified. In the specific heat ( Cp) measurements of unconven-tional spin glasses, a broad maximum is often detected in the vicinity of the spin freezing temperature Tg , indi-cating short-range spin correlations rather than a sharp phase transition. This broad maximum depicts the grad-ual nature of spin freezing process, where the spins be-come trapped in a disordered, non-equilibrium state with a wide distribution of energy barriers. In contrast to conventional magnetic phase transitions, which antici-pate a pronounced divergence in Cp, spin glasses dis-play a smeared-out anomaly originating from frustra-tion and competing interactions. At temperature be-low Tg , the specific heat exhibits a linear response with temperature ( Cm ∝ T ), which is a hallmark of spin glass behavior as observed in canonical systems such as CuMn, AuFe and PtMn [184–186]. However, the lack of sharp anomaly near Tg in Cp raises questions about whether the glass transition in canonical spin glass con-stitutes a genuine phase transition [52]. The class of an-tiferromagnetically interacting Mott insulators such as Na 4Ir 3O8 [187], SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 [188], NiGa 2S4 [189] and CoAl 2O4 [190] show peculiar T 2 dependence be-low Tg , suggesting unconventional low-energy excitations characteristic of these frustrated magnets. In 2D frus-trated spin-lattices, the quadratic temperature depen-dence of magnetic specific heat ( Cm ∝ T 2) can be de-scribed by the mean-field excitations ‘spaghetti mode’, characterized by a length scale L0 extending upto an or-der of 10 2 number of spins. It assumes a finite spin-stiffness constant within the spin texture of length scale 

L0. For a conventional antiferromagnetically ordered sys-tem, the rigidity in terms of spin-stiffness constant can be derived as: D20 = [3 √3ζ(3) /2π]( ak B θCW /ℏ)2/ ln(2 S +1) [189]. Here, θCW refers to the energy scale of the ex-14 change interaction and D0 is the spin stiffness associated with long-range ordering in the absence of any magnetic frustration. However, in the presence of magnetic frus-tration, the spin stiffness is reduced (softened), leading to a suppression of the spin-wave rigidity constant D.The spin stiffness can be quantitatively estimated from the low-temperature magnetic specific heat, which is de-scribed by the expression: Cm 

> R

=

h 3√3 ζ(3) 2π

i   ak B T

> ℏD

2 −

 √3π

> 2

  aL0

2

, valid in the temperature regime T <Tg ≪ | θCW |. [189] The anomalous features of unconventional spin freez-ing can be systematically described within the HS frame-work, which treats the long-wavelength spin fluctuations of glassy magnets in terms of hydrodynamic modes, anal-ogous to transport phenomena in fluids. In this approach, the low-temperature behavior of magnetic susceptibility and magnetic specific heat serves as key diagnostics of the frozen state. The zero-field-cooled magnetic suscep-tibility χm (in the limit T → 0) together with the scaling of the magnetic specific heat, Cm/T 2, below Tg , reveal the presence of two intrinsic energy scales, E1 and E2.The first energy scale, E1, is expressed as: 

E1 = 2g2μ2 

> B

S(S + 1) NA

zχ m

= kB τ1, (6) where NA is Avogadro’s number, z is the coordination number. This relationship links the susceptibility to E1,which is associated with the characteristic energy related to the exchange interactions of the magnetic material. The second energy scale, E2, can be derived from the specific heat Cm using the relation [56, 57]: 

Cm

NAν = 3ζ(3) 

πd k3 

> B

T 2

ℏ2

X

> i

 1

c2

> i



− 3kB πL20d , (7) where ν is the volume of the unit cell, d is the spac-ing between decoupled spin-lattice layers, a is the bond length between nearest magnetic moments, and L0 is the characteristic length scale to which the Goldstone modes are well defined. By neglecting the second term and as-suming three Goldstone modes, the expression simplifies to: 

Cm

NAν = 3ζ(3) 

πd k3 

> B

T 2

ℏ2

np

c2 . (8) Substituting c = γ

 ρs

> χm

1/2

, leads to: 

ρs

NAν = 3npζ(3) 

πd k3

> B

g2μ2

> B

χm

Cm/T 2 . (9) For in-plane interactions, this results in the energy scale 

E2:

E2 = ρsdNAν = 3npζ(3) 

πk3

> B

g2μ2

> B

χm

Cm/T 2 = kB τ2, (10) where np is the number of degenerate hydrodynamic modes. These energy scales, E1 and E2, are linked to the exchange interaction energy and spin stiffness, which cor-respond to distinct temperature scales, the Curie-Weiss temperature |θCW | and the spin freezing temperature Tg ,respectively. Interestingly, the hyperkagome spin lattice Na 4Ir 3O8

exhibits a quadratic specific heat dependence below 30 K, which remains field independent up to 12 T [187]. However, despite its 3D structure, the possible reduction in the effective dimensionality of magnetic excitations from 3D to 2D has not been systematically investigated in this material. In contrast, the pyrochlore Y 2Mo 2O7

exhibits anomalous glassy behavior near 22 K [191]. In this case, local displacements of O 2− ions relative to their ideal crystallographic positions lead to a distribution of Mo–O–Mo bond angles. This, in turn, modifies the su-perexchange pathways and introduces a distribution of exchange interactions, thereby creating intrinsic interac-tion disorder [192]. This variation in exchange interac-tions ( J) between Mo-Mo pairs intrinsically contributes to the glassy nature, which transforms a flat energy land-scape into a rugged one [75, 192]. Notably, it exhibits a quadratic specific heat dependency on temperature, char-acteristic of two-dimensional magnon excitations. This observation suggests that orbital degeneracy may effec-tively reduce the dimensionality of magnetic interactions from three to two [59, 192]. The presence of broad peak in the magnetic spe-cific heat per temperature (Cm/T ) near Tg suggests the onset of short range spin correlations in these frus-trated magnetic systems. This behavior is quite different from isotropic unfrustrated or weakly frustrated systems where a sharp λ type peak is observed, that corresponds to long-range magnetic order. This is suppressed by a critical magnetic field HC (0) ∼ kB Tbroad /gμ B

pS(S + 1) 

[189, 193]. However, the presence of broad peak in Cm/T 

even at higher magnetic fields ( ≥ HC (0) ) in the frus-trated magnetic systems suggests that it is not associ-ated with long-range magnetic order rather with robust short-range spin correlations, which is a characteristic of the unconventional spin glass state [180, 193]. These short-range spin correlations encounter higher magnetic fields, underscoring the intriguing spin dynamics near the spin glass transitions and unique magnetic correla-tions in such systems. These broad maxima underscore the inherent stability of the spin glass state against ex-ternal perturbations, reflecting pronounced spin fluctu-ations and spin correlations. Such behavior is further supported by microscopic experiments, discussed in the subsequent sections. In frustrated magnets, the magnetic specific heat exhibits a field-independent T n (n = 2 for 2D and n = 3 for 3D frustrated magnetic systems) be-havior below the broad maximum. This behavior can be understood through several interconnected mechanisms as discussed in the following paragraphs: 1. Hydrodynamic Theory and Quasi Two-Dimensional Spin Glasses : In quasi two dimentional 15 materials exhibiting spin glass behavior, the hydrody-namic theory plays an essential role in elucidating the 

T 2 dependence of magnetic specific heat which persists even under the application of magnetic fields. This the-ory describes three hydrodynamic modes such as ω+, ω−,and ω0 whose degeneracy is lifted by the magnetic field, resulting in distinct frequency modes [55, 57]. Below the spin glass transtion temperature, the quadratic polariza-tion mode ω− compensates for the gapped mode ω+, pre-serving the T 2 specific heat behavior despite the external field [56, 57]. 2. Symmetry Reduction in Noncollinear An-tiferromagnets : In noncollinear antiferromagnetic or-dered state, the robustness of the T 2 specific heat below 

TN against applied magnetic fields arises from the reduc-tion of symmetry from O(3) to O(2) in the Hamiltonian. This reduction in symmetry leads to a decrease in the number of Goldstone modes from three to one. How-ever, an “accidental" degeneracy persists, unrelated to the O(2) symmetry, similar to the zero-field case which leads to a pseudo Goldstone mode. It helps in preserving the T 2 dependence of specific heat even under the ap-plication of magnetic field. Such modes, resulting from an approximate or weakly broken continuous symmetry, manifest as unexpectedly low-energy excitations across a wide range of systems, from quantum chromodynam-ics [83, 194] to high-TC superconductors [195] and quan-tum magnets [196, 197]. A well-known example is the generation of pions due to the chiral symmetry breaking which is associated with the pseudo-Goldstone modes. [81, 198, 199]. In such cases, the continuous symmetry is weakly and explicitly broken by a perturbation such as a weak applied magnetic field, leading to the open-ing of a finite energy gap in the Goldstone mode and hence it becomes massive. This scenario is in sharp con-trast with systems where local (gauge) symmetry is bro-ken, such as superconductors, and the Goldstone modes do not manifest as physical excitations. Here, the Gold-stone modes are absorbed by the gauge fields through the Anderson-Higgs mechanism leading to a massive gauge bosons [84, 85]. In superconductivity, this corresponds to the acquisition of a finite penetration depth by the electromagnetic field reflecting the Meissner effect and the opening of an energy gap in the electronic excitation spectrum [84, 200]. 3. Short-Range Spin Correlations and Spin Sin-glets : Another important contributing factor is the co-existence of glassy behavior with the formation of short lived spin singlets near the spin glass transition tem-perature Tg [193, 201, 202]. These singlets show a distinctive kind of spin correlation, which appears as an undecouplable Gaussian-shaped relaxation profile in 

μSR asymmetry. The lifetime of these singlets is signif-icantly shorter than the muon lifetime, suggesting the ephemeral nature of these correlations[202]. The inter-play among thermal fluctuations, fluctuation stiffness, and non-analytic temperature dependence gives rise to distinct quantum behavior and thermodynamic signa-tures that support the quadratic specific heat behav-ior even under an applied magnetic field. The scenar-ios outlined above address the field-independent behav-ior of the power-law exponent n in the magnetic specific heat ( Cm ∝ T n). Where n = 2 for two-dimensional spin glasses and n = 3 for three-dimensional networks such as hyperhoneycomb spin glasses. Overall, the combined interplay of hydrodynamic modes, symmetry reduction, accidental degeneracy, and short-range spin correlations contributes to this robust behavior.  

> 1. Two peak nature of specific heat

Experimental results indicate that there appear two peaks in the specific heat data for some topological spin glasses. The theoretical findings suggest that the dual-peak nature in specific heat could be due to the pres-ence of two energy scales associated with two different types of spin correlations. This two peak nature of spe-cific heat is evident in triangular lattice NiGa 2S4, van der Waals chalcogenides Mn 2Ga 2S5, and spinel FeAl 2Se 4, etc (see Fig. 4 and Fig. 10(b)) [189, 203, 204]. The high-T

peak that is observed around the energy scale of exchange energy is due to the onset of quadrupolar spin correla-tions, which is the spin nematic behavior, and the peak that appears near Tg is due to the dipolar spin correla-tion. The essential physics arises from the existence of biquadratic exchange interaction, expressed as (Si · Sj )2,which exhibits non trivial behavior for S ≥ 1. Unlike spin S = 1 /2 systems, where the quadrupolar moments are absent, high spin S > 1/2 can host a quadrupolar tensor defined as 

Qμν i = 12 ⟨Sμi Sνi + Sνi Sμi ⟩ − 13 S(S + 1) δμν , (11) which encodes the fluctuation of higher-order moments beyond conventional moments. These degrees of free-dom are directly coupled to the biquadratic term, pro-ducing an additional channel of correlations that grow at temperatures of the order of the exchange scale J. Mi-croscopically, such terms arise from multi-orbital Hub-bard picture or via spin-lattice coupling in these materi-als. [205]. Theoretical studies [206, 207] have shown that when the system is close to the quantum critical point, sep-arating the quadrupolar (spin-nematic) phase from the conventional magnetic phase, two distinct temperature scales typically arise. First, the intermediate scale TQ

marks the quadrupolar correlations, and the second is a much lower scale T ∗(∼ Tbroad ) corresponding to the regime where dipolar correlations dominate. The first temperature scale manifests as the high-temperature peak in Cp(T ), while the latter produces a broad max-imum at lower temperatures associated with slow spin dynamics, glassiness or collective excitations such as HS modes. These features do not correspond to true phase transitions in two dimensions which is consistent with the Mermin-Wagner theorem. Instead they represent 16   

> FIG. 4. Double-peak structure in the specific heat as a signature of complex spin freezing . The specific heat divided by temperature of the frustrated spinel FeAl 2Se 4as a function of temperature exhibits a double-peak structure, indicative of two distinct correlation regimes. Adapted from the ref. [204] with permission from APS

crossovers governed by the different symmetry regions of the Hilbert space. In NiGa 2S4, the combined study of neutron and NMR experiments confirms that quadrupolar spin fluctuations start to appear well above the freezing temperature 

Tg [208]. This behavior is consistent with the two peak nature observed in Cp as shown in Fig. 10(b). This makes an essential difference between S = 12 and S ≥ 1

based topological spin glasses. Systems with S ≥ 1

possess a sufficiently rich Hilbert space to sustain both quadrupolar and dipolar correlations, which leads to mul-tiple entropy-releasing processes, resulting in a character-istic double peak in the specific heat.  

> 2. Contrasting nature of specific heat in canonical and topological spin glasses

Specific-heat measurements on canonical spin glasses show a linear temperature dependence ( Cm ∝ T ) near 

Tg . This linear-in-T behavior can be established by using the Anderson-Varma-Halperin (AVH) mechanism [209]. In this formalism, low-energy excitations emerge from lo-calized two-level systems (TLS) associated with the col-lective nature of spin freezing. Here, the system can fluc-tuate between two nearly degenerate spin configurations that are separated by a small energy barrier. The quan-tum tunneling between these two metastable states cap-tures the dynamics of spin glasses. As the temperature is lowered down to Tg , the density of states arises primar-ily from the quantum tunneling among these metastable states with minimal energy difference ( ∆E ≈ 0). For a statistical distribution of localized TLS, the specific heat is given by CT LS = π2 

> 6

k2 

> B

T n (0) , where n(0) represents the density of states. This scenario is predicted to be a universal feature of ’glassy’ systems [209]. The Hamil-tonian is given : H =

E1 ∆∆ E2



, with ∆ ∝ e−V / 2ℏ,where V is the energy barrier. Here, the energies of two metastable states ( E1 and E2) are nearly degenerate, and for the energy barriers are sufficiently small ( ∆E ∼ kBT ), the tunneling gives rise to zero-point fluctuations that yield the observed Cm ∝ T behavior. The AVH framework assumes a wide distribution of local magnetic fields, Hloc which arises from random ori-entation of magnetic moments present in the system. The distribution of the field facilitates the quantum tunnelling among nearly degenerate spin configurations, giving rise to characteristic low-energy excitations in canonical spin glasses. In contrast, topological spin glasses possess an energy landscape shaped not by random disorder but by significant frustration and quantum fluctuations. As a re-sult, the spins are not trapped in random directions and local magnetic fields remain broadly distributed rather than forming a sharp peak at Hloc = 0 which is a defin-ing feature of the canonical systems. The aftermath of this effect is observed in the distinct power law of specific heat which shows a unique density of states associated with collective HS modes [55–57]. In systems with partial magnetic dilution, where both spin-jam and canonical spin-glass behaviors coexist, the total magnetic specific heat can be modeled as a combination of two compo-nents: C = f C HS + (1 − f ) CTL , where CHS corresponds to contributions from the HS collective modes and CTL 

represents tunneling-like (TL) excitations of localized spin clusters. The factor f quantifies the relative frac-tion of the spin-jam component and depends sensitively on the degree of disorder and magnetic dilution [56, 210]. When the magnetic concentration increases beyond the percolation threshold, the collective HS excitations start to dominate over the localized two-level modes. This marks a crossover from a canonical to a topological spin-glass regime, which is clearly observed in the specific heat behavior. The low-temperature specific heat evolves from a linear dependence C ∼ T to a power-law form 

C ∼ T n with 1 < n ≤ 2. In the case of n = 2 , typical for two-dimensional frustrated spin glasses, the excita-tions originate purely from collective Goldstone modes. This crossover is clearly observed in the doped quasi-two-dimensional spin glass Ba 2Sn 2ZnCr 7pGa 10 −7pO22 . For 

p ≥ 0.93 , the specific heat follows a T 2 dependence indicative of HS mode excitations. With increasing non-magnetic (Ga 3+ ) doping, the low-temperature spe-cific heat below Tg shows a hybrid behavior. It con-tains contributions from both the quadratic temperature-dependent term ( Cm ∝ T 2) associated with the HS modes and the linear-in-T component( Cm ∝ T ), which corresponds to localized two-level excitations [210]. This coexistence signifies the gradual transition from a regime dominated by a collective HS mode to a localized spin 17 glass-like state as the amount of non-magnetic dilution increases. Zero-point entropy is defined as the residual entropy at absolute zero temperature. In conventional spin glasses, the randomness often leads to a frozen state with a fi-nite residual entropy. Theoretical calculations predict zero-point entropies of about S0 ≈ 1.66 J mol −1K−1

for Ising spins and S0 ≈ 4.30 J mol −1K−1 for XY sys-tems [211, 212]. These values are consistent with ex-perimental observations in dilute dipolar spin glasses such as LiHo xY1−xF4 [213]. Unlike canonical spin glass, which has hierarchical energy landscapes shaped by ran-dom disorder, the spin jam or topological spin glass exhibits a flat but rugged energy landscape that origi-nates from strong spin correlations and quantum fluc-tuations. In spin jam systems, the zero point entropy expressed as SSJ arises from collective frustration rather than random disorder. Thermodynamic measurements on the quasi-two-dimensional frustrated kagome system Ba 2Sn 2ZnCr 7pGa 10 −7pO22 reveal a continuous crossover between these two regimes. For high spin density ( p ≥

0.93 ), the magnetic specific heat follows a T 2 law, char-acteristic of HS modes, while increased nonmagnetic di-lution introduces an additional linear-in-T contribution from localized two-level excitations [210]. From specific heat the total magnetic entropy can be estimated as, 

S(T ) = S0 +∆ S(T ) = S0 +R TTbase  

> Cmag
> T

dT, where S0 is the zero-point entropy. For p = 0 .98 , the experimental ob-servation indicates that about 55% of the total magnetic entropy remains unreleased at the lowest measured tem-perature, corresponding to S0 ≈ 6.3 J mol −1 

> Cr

K−1 [210]. In conclusion, in a densely frustrated spin glass, the freezing mechanism is primarily dominated by quantum fluctuations and the short-range spin correlation, which gives rise to Goldstone modes. However, in proximity to or below the percolation threshold, the random occu-pation of spin moments opens a path to the canonical spin glass nature, as the spins are not well connected in this region. Here, the excitations are not well defined, and the localized two-level excitations dominate the low-temperature behavior.   

> B. Signatures of Topological Spin Freezing via Local Probes
> 1. Nuclear magnetic resonance

Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) occupies a unique position among microscopic techniques employed to ex-amine the magnetic and electronic properties of frus-trated magnets. Its effectiveness stems from the interac-tion between nuclear magnetic moments and local fields produced by surrounding electrons, allowing us to probe the fine details of charge and spin fluctuations at the atomic scale. Each nuclear isotope is characterized by a nuclear spin quantum number I and gyromagnetic ra-tio γn, allowing the resonance condition to be selectively tuned by target nuclei such as 1H, 13 C, or 31 P. This ca-pability provides exceptional site selectivity and sensi-tivity to explore the microscopic spin dynamics and lo-cal environments of the complex materials [215]. No-tably, 1H stands out for its large gyromagnetic ratio 

(γ/ 2π = 42 .576 MHz /T) [215]. The particular strength of NMR lies in its ability to probe both the static and dynamic properties of spin systems. The experimentally observed Knight shift K originates from the polarization of electron spins surrounding the nucleus through hyper-fine coupling and hence provides a direct link between the local magnetic field and the bulk magnetic suscep-tibility. The NMR linewidth arises from the local field distribution within the material. In topological spin glass phases, the study of temperature dependent NMR spec-tra reveals the crossover from a high-temperature param-agnetic state to a low-temperature, correlated and frozen state. Typically, we see a sharp resonance in the NMR lineshape in the paramagnetic phase. However, when the system is cooled to the spin-freezing temperature Tg ,the shape of the lines gradually broadens and becomes asymmetric [180]. This crossover in the NMR lineshape reflects the emergence of static local magnetic fields and the slowing down of spin dynamics below Tg . We can observe the development of magnetic correlation and fea-tures associated with emergent spin excitations by inves-tigating the NMR shift, the linewidth, and the relaxation rate. At the heart of these observations, the hyperfine interactions play a vital role, which couples nuclear and electronic spins through both contact and dipolar chan-nels [216, 217]. The hyperfine Hamiltonian, 

Hhf = 8π

3 gI μB γnℏ I · S(r)+gI μB γnℏ I ·

 S

r3 − 3r (S · r)

r5

 (12) encompasses both a contact term and a dipolar term. The contact term accounts for the Knight shift and tracks intrinsic spin susceptibility, whereas the dipolar interac-tion accounts for anisotropic NMR line broadening. In topological spin glasses, the HS modes are of par-ticular interest because they remain gapless and long-wavelength fluctuations even when spin freezing sets in [55, 218]. Experimentally, the Knight shift ( K) offers a direct insight into the spin susceptibility through the hy-perfine coupling constant Ahf : K = Hloc  

> H0

= Ahf χ(q =0, ω = 0) . Variations in the Knight shift ( K) with tem-perature capture how the electronic system reorganizes during the glassy transition. At the same time the NMR linewidth ( ∆H) increases sharply below Tg , in-dicating the emergence of static (or quasi static) local fields and broad distribution of magnetic moments of owing electron spin [214]. The relative linewidth, de-fined as δH = ∆ H/H , is a useful parameter to quan-tify the glassy transition. A sudden increase in δH 

indicates the onset of spin freezing in canonical spin glasses, while its saturation at low temperatures suggests the presence of fluctuating regions that persist even at 18 1 10 100 

0.1 

1

10 

4.23 T 6.89 T 

T 2.2 

T 3

> 1/ T1 (s -1 )

T (K) 1 10 

0.01 

0.1 

> 0 T 3 T 6 T 9 T ~T
> Cm/T (J/mol-K 2)

T(K) Tg

# Rh 4+ 

# (a)  (b) 

# (c)  (d) 

FIG. 5. NMR and thermodynamic signatures of slow spin dynamics and spin freezing in Kitaev and spin-orbit coupled frustrated magnets. (a) Temperature dependence of the spin-lattice relaxation rate below Tg , 1/T 1 for Li 2RhO 3,measured under applied magnetic fields of 4.23 T and 6.89 T. A broad maximum and subsequent rapid drop in 1/T 1 signify the onset of spin freezing. Inset: Field-independent magnetic specific heat Cm/T vs T data up to 9 T, highlighting the robust low-energy spin dynamics characteristic of topological spin freezing in Kitaev magnets. (b) Relative NMR line width δH = ∆ H/H 

at 70 and 114 MHz as a function of temperature, showing significant broadening in Li 2RhO 3 compared to the nonmagnetic analog Li 2SnO 3, indicative of internal field distribution associated with spin freezing. (c) 23 Na spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T 1

(left axis, black circles) and specific heat C/T (right axis, blue squares) for Na 4Ir 3O8, plotted against temperature. Power-law fits (purple lines) illustrate the nontrivial scaling behavior expected from HS-type low-energy excitations. (d) Gaussian full width at half maximum (FWHM) broadening for 23 Na at 4 and 7 T in Na 4Ir 3O8, plotted as a function of temperature below 16 K. The broadening reflects the emergence of static spin textures in the hyperkagome lattice as temperature decreases. Source: (a,b) adapted from [180] with permission from APS, (c,d) adapted from [187, 214] with permission from APS. 

the lowest temperatures. The magnetic moment derived from the saturated value of NMR at low temperatures is typically very small compared to that expected for a spin system, which suggests frustration-induced fluc-tuations in topological spin glass materials. This be-havior distinguishes the topological spin glass from its canonical counterpart, in which the linewidth contin-ues to broaden as the freezing progresses [219]. The dynamical window of NMR is primarily determined by the 1/T 1, which governs how the nuclear spins exchange energy with their electronic environments. By investi-gating its temperature and field dependence, one can gain insight into the signatures of collective spin modes and underlying spin dynamics of the systems. In gen-eral, the relaxation rate is sensitive to the low-energy spectrum of the material: 1 

> T1

∝ P 

> q

|Ahf (q)|2 χ′′  

> m(q,ω )
> ω

,where Ahf (q) is the wave vector-dependent hyperfine cou-pling, and χ′′ 

> m

(q, ω ) is the imaginary part of the dynamic 19 spin susceptibility [216]. For collective HS modes, this susceptibility often takes the form [220]: χ′′ 

> m

(q, ω ) = 

> ω χ mDsq2
> 2

" 

> 1(ω−cq )2+( Dsq2)2

+ 1(ω+cq )2+( Dsq2)2

#

, with Ds

the spin-diffusion constant and c the spin wave veloc-ity. In the limit where Ds → 0 the susceptibility sim-plifies to χ′′ 

> m

(q, ω ) = π 

> 2

ωχ m [δ(ω − cq ) + δ(ω + cq )] . This reflects sharply peaked excitations, corresponding to gap-less, propagating spin waves. Both the NMR relaxation rate 1/T 1 and the magnetic specific heat coefficient Cm/T 

reflect the density of states (DOS) of low-energy spin excitations as Cm/T ∝ N (EF ) and 1/T 1 ∝ T N (EF )2

,which leads to 1/T 1 ∝ T 3. So for two-dimensional magnets with linearly dispersing antiferromagnetic spin waves, where N (EF ) ∝ T leads to a power law behavior in spin-lattice relaxation rate as: 1/T 1 ∝ T 3. In 2D tri-angular topological spin glass NiGa 2S4 a T 3 dependence of 1/T 1 is observed below 1 K. The power-law tempera-ture dependence in 1/T 1 follows a broad hump near Tg

complementary to the broad peak observed in Cm, which marks the onset of short-range spin correlations. In both the 2D Kitaev spin glass Li 2RhO 3 and the 3D hyperk-agome material Na 4Ir 3O8, the 1/T 1 exhibits a maximum near Tg , followed by a sharp decrease and eventually a power law decay at the lowest temperatures [180, 214]. The experimental observation reveals that, below Tg ,

1/T 1 follows a temperature dependence as T n, with n ap-proximately 2.2 in Li 2RhO 3 and nearly 3.8 in Na 4Ir 3O8.The HS theory predicts n = 3 for 2D systems, associ-ated with gapless hydrodynamic spin modes. However, the deviation of this value from ideal is not surprising because in real materials, unquenched quantum fluctua-tions, spin-orbit coupling, or subtle exchange anisotropies shift the low-temperature exponent [56, 221, 222]. The reduced value in 2D suggests a rich landscape of low en-ergy states that remain accessible even in freezing states, while the enhanced value in 3D frustrated spin glasses hints at partial gapping or anisotropic stiffness [54, 214]. As for the NMR linewidth, its detailed temperature and field dependence contains valuable clues about the microscopic freezing process. In both Li 2RhO 3 and 

Na 4Ir 3O8, the linewidth ∆H increases upon cooling, and it saturates for T < T broad , a trend that closely tracks fea-tures in the specific heat. The saturated linewidth at low temperatures suggests the presence of long-lived but not truly static moments: only a fraction of spins appears to be frozen, while a dynamic background still persists. The fact that ∆H below Tg shows minimal dependence on the applied magnetic field. In the hyperkagome material 

Na 4Ir 3O8, for example, ∆H remains nearly unchanged between 4 T and 7 T for T < 7 K (Fig. 5(d)) [214]. Asimilar field-independent broadening is also found in the Kitaev compound Li 2RhO 3 between 4.23 T and 6.89 T below Tg = 6 K [180]. This insensitivity to external fields complements the field-independent nature of specific heat in topological spin glasses. Overall, NMR provides an exceptional microscopic view of the intricate interplay between topology and dis-order in highly frustrated spin glasses. It provides ac-cess to local magnetic correlations, exotic dynamics, and emergent low-energy excitations. Complementary mea-surements such as μSR, AC susceptibility and inelastic neutron scattering are essential for a complete classifica-tion of topological spin glasses.  

> 2. Neutron scattering

Neutrons are electrically neutral subatomic particles that carry a magnetic moment due to their spin. The de Broglie wavelength of neutrons is comparable to the dis-tances between atoms in solids, making them a regular probe in condensed matter research. Neutrons can deeply penetrate matter because they interact weakly with mat-ter, enabling the measurement of the bulk properties. Another feature is that the neutron probe is sensitive to isotopic effects as they interact with the nuclei. In a magnetic material the neutron spin moment couples to the magnetic field created by the electronic environment. Overall, neutron scattering has become a regular probe used for studying the structural and spin dynamical be-havior in frustrated magnets. In elastic neutron scatter-ing, we observe the scattered neutron with zero energy loss ( Ei = Ef ). For a long-range ordered magnetic state, elastic neutron scattering sees the Bragg peaks. In a disordered spin system, the magnetic scattering becomes diffusive because the periodicity is lost. This diffusive magnetic scattering shows the onset of short-range spin correlations. We can measure the spatial extent of these correlations by looking at the shape and width of the dif-fuse signal. In INS, we measure the energy change in neu-trons after they scatter. Here Ei̸ = Ef and the change in energy is ℏω = Ei − Ef . The probed neutrons can create or annihilate excitations in a magnetic material, such as spin waves (magnons), spinons, or more exotic modes. By measuring the change in energy, one can map the spectrum of these collective phenomena. This is done using energy-sensitive tools like monochromators, time-of-flight spectrometers, or detectors that can precisely track changes in neutron energy. Because of this, inelas-tic neutron scattering provides valuable insight into the dynamic behavior of materials. This allows us to extract information on the spatial correlation and the temporary changes of spin moments. The dynamical structure factor S(Q, ω ) is the key observable in INS measurements, characterizing spatial and temporal spin correlations.. The momentum trans-fer is defined as: Q = |ki − kf |, where ki and kf are the incident and scattered neutron wavevectors, respec-tively. In terms of the experimentally defined scatter-ing angle 2θ, the magnitude of Q is given by: Q =q

k2 

> i

+ k2 

> f

− 2kikf cos(2 θ). In the special case of elastic scattering ( ki = kf = 2 π/λ ), this reduces to Q = 4πλ sin θ, 

where θ is half of the scattering angle. In general, the 20 structure factor S(Q, ω ) represents the spherically aver-aged scattering function of the powder sample and it is given as [223]: 

S(Q, ω ) = 

Z dΩ ˆQ

4π

12

X

> α,β

(δαβ − ˆQα ˆQβ )|F (Q)|2 (gμ B )2

2πℏ

×

Z

dt e iωt 1

N

X

> R,R′

⟨Sα

> R

(t)Sβ 

> R′

(0) ⟩e−iQ·(R−R′)

(13) By integrating over all energy transfers, one obtains the static structure factor S(Q) = R S(Q, ω )dω . The static structure factor represents the Fourier transform of the pair correlation function G(r), ), which expresses the probability of finding two spin moments separated by a distance r. Consequently, the structure factor can be written as S(Q) = R G(r)eiQ·r dr . This quantity provides a direct link between real-space spin correla-tions and the intensity distribution observed in reciprocal space [224]. Neutron scattering stands out as a remarkably versa-tile tool for probing magnetic order and dynamics. At the heart of this approach lies the double-differential cross-section, d2σdΩ dω , which tells us how likely neutrons are to scatter in a particular direction while exchanging energy with the material. The cross-section is directly related to the experimentally observed dynamic structure factor 

S(Q, ω ), via: d2σdΩ dω ∝ | F (Q)|2S(Q, ω ), where F (Q) is the magnetic form factor that carries the information of the spatial distribution of magnetic moments and their ori-entation relative to the scattering vector Q. A closer ex-amination of S(Q, ω ) probes the momentum- and energy-resolved map of spin correlations and thus plays a piv-otal role in revealing both the nature of the ground state and the spectrum of low energy excitations [225–227]. For instance, in quantum spin liquids the lack of any sharp features in S(Q, ω ) infers the absence of conven-tional long-range magnetic order, while broad, diffuse continua indicate the presence of fractionalized excita-tions such as spinons [47, 227, 228]. In such cases the excitation often involves two spinons each carrying in-dividual wave vectors q1 and q2 such that their com-bined momentum equals the total momentum transfer 

Q. These two spinon excitations form a broad contin-uum in the excitation spectrum which fills the area be-tween the dispersion of single spinon and conventional magnons. Whereas in conventional magnets exhibiting long-range order, the low-energy spectrum is dominated by sharp spin-1 magnon modes. Therefore, measuring the dynamical structure factor, S(Q, ω ), using inelastic neutron scattering provides a powerful means to distin-guish between the static ordered phase and the more sub-tle emergent excitations characteristic of exotic quantum phases. The correlation length ξ is another important quan-tity that can be found from neutron scattering, which measures how far magnetic order or correlations persist spatially in a magnetic material. Generally, ξ can be calculated by examining the width of the static struc-tural factor S(Q). For systems where the short-range correlation dominates the static structure factor can be approximated as S(Q) ∼ 11+( Qξ )2 . This Lorentzian-type form signifies that when the peak in the reciprocal space broadens, the correlation in the real space dimin-ishes. The correlation length is inversely related to the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the peak:( ξ = 

> 1
> FWHM

) [224]. Therefore, a sharp peak corresponds to long-range correlation, and a broader peak indicates the more localized and short-range magnetic correlation. In topological spin glasses, this length scale ξ typically ex-tends only a few lattice spacings [57] and reflects how frustration inhibits the formation of long-range magnetic order. Whereas the stiffness length L0 is the distance over which collective, long-wavelength excitations, like spin waves or coherent spin fluctuations, can propagate collectively and coherently. Therefore, in short, for topo-logical spin glasses, ξ captures the frozen, short-range correlations that arise from frustration, whereas, L0 gen-erally a larger scale is for the coherent propagation of col-lective magnetic excitations, reflecting the distinct static and dynamic length scales in magnetic materials. In addition to static correlation, INS maps the imagi-nary part of the dynamic susceptibility, χ′′ (Q, ω ), which measures how spins respond to time-dependent perturba-tions. The connection to the dynamic structure factor is given by the fluctuation-dissipation theorem : S(Q, ω ) =  

> 1
> π

χ′′ (Q, ω ) [1 + n(ω)] , with n(ω) representing the Bose occupation factor [225, 229]. In canonical spin glasses, the complicated, rugged energy landscape traps spin ex-citations and leads to localized, slow relaxations. This often yields a simple Lorentzian form: 

χ′′ (Q, ω ) ∼ χ′′ (Q, 0) ΓLℏω

(ℏω)2 + Γ 2

> L

, (14) where ΓL sets the energy scale for these processes [230]. On the other hand, in frustrated magnets like SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 , the landscape is much richer, blend-ing features from both localized and collective excita-tions. It is common to find a functional form combining Lorentzian and arctangent contributions [60, 75]: 

χ′′ (Q, ω ) ∼ α

 ωω2 + Γ 2

> L



+ tan −1

 ω

Γmin 



, (15) where the arctangent is associated with the influence of long-wavelength and collective modes. It is important to understand this distinction in order to separate quan-tum topological phenomena from classical glassy relax-ation [56]. Consider the doped square-lattice antifer-romagnet Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6 a spin- 12 system showing glassy behavior below Tg ≈ 1.7 K. Here, experiments find a linear ℏω dependence in χ′′ for ℏω < k B Tg , and a magnetic specific heat scaling as Cm ∼ T 2 [60, 231]. This points to the persistence of gapless, Goldstone-like spin excitations in a state that lacks global order but 21 still breaks some continuous symmetries. The freezing mechanism here seems quantum in origin, deeply tied to frustration and gauge constraints [61]. With added disorder or dilution, systems like SCGO( p) increasingly show broad, Lorentzian spectral weight, a clear mark of classical spin glass relaxation taking over from quantum coherence [75]. The elastic magnetic structure factor, Smag (Q), indeed provides information on spatial correlations in spin glass systems. In canonical spin glasses, it is typically broad and nearly featureless, reflecting the dominance of finite clusters and the absence of long-range magnetic order. In topological spin glasses, Smag (Q) often produces diffuse or moderately structured features, indicating well-defined short-range correlations. Quasi-elastic scattering, ob-served as spectral broadening at low energies, points to slow dynamics and a wide spread in relaxation times. 

Smag (Q) also helps distinguish interaction regimes—the appearance of broad peaks for RKKY-type systems is a classic fingerprint. Tracking the evolution of Smag (Q) below Tg can quan-tify the freezing transition, especially by focusing on the integrated low-energy spectral weight: 

˜S(T ) = 

Z Qmax 

> Qmin

Z ωmax 

> ωmin

S(Q, ℏω)

|f (Q)|2 dωdQ, (16) A sharp drop in ˜S(T ) signals the freezing of spin fluctu-ations, mirrored by the emergence of a finite staggered moment ⟨S⟩ even without global order [60, 232, 233]. The static structure factor, correlation length, and dy-namic susceptibility all highlight why neutron scattering is an advantageous instrument to explore the frustrated magnets. These observables allow capturing both the spatial arrangements and temporal evolution of spins. In addition, these observables allow to distinguish between canonical spin glass and topological spin glass [54]. For the discerning readers, juxtaposing S(Q, ω ) with complementary probes such as thermodynamic and NMR measurements yields coherent evidence for topological glassiness. The absence of Bragg peaks below Tg , along with broad and overdamped low-energy excitations, is very different from the well-defined spin wave modes ob-served in conventional magnets. The time-resolved ex-periments can capture the aging phenomena where the magnetic dynamics evolve over experimental timescales, direct experimental signatures of glassy behavior. When analyzed using theoretical frameworks such as the Sher-rington–Kirkpatrick or Halperin–Saslow models, neutron scattering provides significant insights into the influence of quantum coherence, frustration, and topological con-straints on spin dynamics.  

> 3. μSR experiments

Muon spin relaxation ( μSR) is a powerful microscopic probe to study the magnetic properties of frustrated sys-tems. The muon is an elementary particle with a spin of  

> 12

and a mass that is about 207 times that of the elec-tron [235–237]. It is short-lived, with an average life-time of 2.2 μs, and possesses a magnetic moment char-acterized by a gyromagnetic ratio of γμ = 2 π × 135 .5

MHz T −1 [238]. In condensed matter studies, the pos-itive muon ( μ+) is particularly useful because it inter-acts directly with the electronic environment. The high-intensity muon beam particles are created when high-energy proton beams are fired into a target. This event gives rise to the production of pions, which are again short-lived particles with an average lifetime of 26 ns, and they further decay into a muon via the reaction 

π+ → μ+ + νμ. Neutrinos have a very intrinsic feature of negative helicity, where their spins are antiparallel to their momentum. As the π+ has zero spin, in the rest frame, the muon should follow the same trend as the neu-trino, i.e, the muon must have a negative helicity. So, the pion decay gives rise to 100% spin-polarized muons, which is a major advantage of the μSR technique over other spectroscopy methods. The decay muons have an energy of 4.1 MeV, which is implanted into the mate-rial, and they undergo a number of events, such as the ionization of atoms, muonium formation via e− capture, and inelastic collisions, all of which occur in a very short time. The above events involve only Coulombic interac-tions, so the polarization of muons remains 100%. Fi-nally, following a sequence of successive electron capture and loss reactions, the muon comes to rest and occupies an interstitial site with an energy of a few eV, which is suitable for probing low-energy many-body phenomena in condensed matter. The implanted muon undergoes decay into a positron via μ+ → e+ + ν− 

> μ

+ νe.Fully polarized muons act as an ideal probe to inves-tigate the local magnetic environments in solids. Once the muons are implanted into the material, they come to rest at interstitial sites, where they experience the local magnetic field due to unpaired spin moments. The local magnetic field in a magnetic material probed by μSR is dipolar in nature. The core principle behind the μSR technique is that the muon spin will precess around the local magnetic field direction at a frequency directly pro-portional to the field strength. The precession frequency, 

ωμ, of the muon spin is directly related to the local field 

Blocal by the relation: ωμ = γμ |Blocal |, where γμ is the gyromagnetic ratio of the muon, which is 2π×135.53 MHz/T [239]. The precession results in periodic oscilla-tions of the muon spin polarization along the beam di-rection, which can be monitored through the detection of the emitted positrons from the muon decay. The typical muon lifetime is approximately 2.2 μs, during which the muon interacts with its local environment of the sample under study and subsequently decays via weak interac-tions, emitting a positron preferentially aligned with its spin. Fig. 7(a) presents a schematic of a typical μSR experimental arrangement. In this setup, muons are im-planted into the sample under investigation, where muons decay into positrons after a lifetime. In forward and back-ward directions of the the muon, positron detectors are 22 1.40 1.45 1.50 1.55 1.60 0.0 0.8 1.6 2.4 3.2 0.0 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6 2.0 010 20 30 40 50 0 2 4 6 8 10 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 (a) 

# (b) 

# (c) 

# (d) 

# (e) 

# (f)  

> Peak Position
> ξPowder
> HWHM
> ξ Powder  (Å)
> Peak Position  (Å-1)
> HWHM
> χ'' (Q, ω) (μB2 meV -1Mn -1) χ'' (ω) ( μB2 /meV/Cr ')
> Imag  (arb. units)
> Q (Å -1)Q (Å -1)
> χ''  (ℏ ω) (1/meV/Cu 2+ )

ℏω (meV) 

> S( Q) (1/meV/Cu 2+ )

ℏω (meV) p

ℏω (meV) 

p = 0.968(6) 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 

FIG. 6. Inelastic neutron scattering reveals topological spin freezing in frustrated quantum materials. (a) Momentum dependence of low-energy magnetic fluctuations S(Q) in a doped square lattice antiferromagnet Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6,integrated over the energy range 0.05–0.80 meV, measured at various temperatures (0.25 K, 1.70 K, 4.00 K, and 7.00 K). The integrated intensities reveal temperature-dependent evolution in spectral weight and broadening, with smooth fits shown as colored curves. (b) Imaginary part of the dynamic susceptibility Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6, χ′′ (ℏω) in, obtained via detailed balance correction from energy-integrated scattering S(ℏω) averaged over the momentum window Q = [0 .4, 1.0] Å−1. A near-linear behavior in χ′′ (ℏω) is seen at low temperatures up to approximately 0.15 meV, indicative of overdamped, gapless excitations. (c) Elastic magnetic scattering intensity of SCGOp as a function of momentum Q, measured at 1.4 K (or 0.27 K for p = 0 .459 ). Nonmagnetic background subtraction was performed using data collected at 20 K. The profiles are well-described by Lorentzian fits, with dashed lines indicating the extracted peak widths and positions and the evolution of the static spin correlation length and corresponding peak positions as a function of dilution parameter p, revealing how structural disorder modulates magnetic correlations(d). (e) Temperature-dependent behavior of χ′′ (ω) for p = 0 .968(6) in kagome material SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 , derived from inelastic neutron scattering at low energies. The observed suppression of spectral weight with increasing temperature reflects thermally activated damping of slow fluctuations. (f) Energy- and momentum-resolved magnetic susceptibility χ′′ (Q, ω )

integrated over Q = [1 .5, 2.1] Å−1, measured using incident energies of 5.3, 9.0, and 18.7 meV. Data are shown for comparison with the canonical spin glass Cu 1−xMn x (x = 0 .034 , Tg = 20 .2 K), illustrating a broad continuum of excitations characteristic of glassy spin dynamics. Source: (a,b) adapted from [60] with permission from APS, (c,d,e) adapted from [75] with permission from PNAS, (f) adapted from [234] with permission from APS. 

placed which detects positrons coming from the sample. The positron counts recorded by the both detectors are used to construct the asymmetry function A(t), which is directly proportional to the muon spin polarization func-tion P(t). By analyzing the time evolution of P(t), one can extract information about the static and dynamic magnetic properties of the material [12, 237, 240–242]. 

μSR is a uniquely powerful and complementary tech-nique for exploring subtle magnetic and electronic ground states. The central key of μSR experiment is the pre-cession or relaxation of the muon spin which bears close resemblance to NMR and electron spin resonance (ESR) [238, 239, 243]. Since these local probes track spin dynamics, the essential distinction lies in their initial po-larization of the probe spins. While muon beams can be produced with nearly 100% polarization, the nuclear or electron spins in NMR and ESR are weakly polarized under typical laboratory conditions. As a result, NMR and ESR require the application of radio-frequency (MHz range) or microwave (GHz range) photons to produce signal. In contrast, μSR does not rely on such resonant driving; instead, it is inherently a nonresonant technique where muons’ natural precession and decay provide the necessary signal. NMR requires NMR-activated nuclei with suitable magnetic moments and often suffers from weak signal-to-noise ratios in insulating or dilute systems, 23 while μSR does not depend on isotopic abundance. The implanted muon acts as a very sensitive local probe of the internal magnetic field, it can detect tiny static or fluctuating moments (down to ∼ 10 −3 μB ), often below the resolution of neutron diffraction. In contrast to neu-tron scattering, which requires large single crystals and provides information averaged over reciprocal space, μSR can be performed on small amounts of polycrystalline or even powdered samples, offering microscopic, site-specific insight into the local environment. NMR is sensitive to very low-frequency dynamics and neutron scattering ac-cesses much higher frequencies (Fig. 7(b)), while μSR bridges the intermediate-frequency regime between fast electronic processes and slower nuclear spin dynamics, making it particularly well suited for studying spin-glass freezing, magnetic order, spin dynamics, superconduct-ing vortex states, and quantum fluctuations in frustrated magnets [244, 245]. It is important to note that the muon probe is not completely passive, as it carries a positive charge and can perturb the electronic and mag-netic environment of the host lattice locally. It is proven from various studies that the implanted muon typically induces a local structural distortion, thereby modifying exchange pathways and leading to a local magnetic per-turbation [248, 249]. Especially in the Pr 3+ pyrochlore Pr 2B2O7 (B =Sn, Zr, and Hf), the implanted muons in-duce an anisotropic distortion field that splits the non-Kramers doublet ground state of Pr 3+ moment [250]. As calculated, the splitting is of several meV, which leads to an enhancement of the hyperfine coupling of Pr nuclear moments close to the muon site and results in a static dis-tribution of magnetic fields observed in μSR experiments. As a result, it shows an increase in static relaxation rates and rms field widths on cooling, and it reflects the muon-induced effects rather than the behavior of the quantum spin ice in Pr 2B2O7 [250]. Muon polarization carried out in ZF configuration at 50 mK on ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2

shows damped oscillatory behavior; however, this is not due to spin freezing. It is attributed to the formation of a muon–hydroxyl (OH– μ) complex and the dipolar in-teraction between the nucleus and the muon moments gives rise to the damped oscillatory behavior [251]. Sub-stituting H-atom with deuterium, i.e., ZnCu 3(OD) 6Cl 2,there appears an exponentially decaying function in ZF polarization without any oscillatory nature. In the deu-terium version, the oscillation frequency is too small such that it escapes the muon time window. Upon applying a weak LF field of 8 mT, we see that the relaxation is largely suppressed and easily decoupled from the ZF po-larization. Importantly, no additional relaxation or loss of oscillatory behavior is observed down to 50 mK, sug-gesting that the Herbetsmithite is in a dynamic state. Therefore, special care should be taken into account while interpreting μSR data—particularly in highly frustrated or low-dimensional spin systems. It is noteworthy that intrinsic electronic and spin degrees of freedom respond on timescales much faster than the muon precession. So, except for some special cases as discussed in the above ex-amples, μSR probes a fully relaxed local equilibrium con-figuration in the presence of the muon [237], rather than a transient perturbation. In this sense, the measured local fields by μSR experiment correspond to a renormalized magnetic environment. The μSR technique can be performed in three differ-ent geometries to investigate the time-evolution polar-ization function of the measured sample. A common ge-ometry is the transverse-field(TF-μSR) method, where the external magnetic field is set perpendicular to the initial polarized muon. In this configuration, the muon precesses around the applied field and eventually depo-larizes, which is detected through the positron detector. The other two geometries are longitudinal-field(LF-μSR) method, where the external magnetic field is set parallel to the initial muon polarization, and the Zero-field(ZF-

μSR) method, where the muon probes with its own polar-ized spin and without any external magnetic field. In this method, the muon precesses around the intrinsic mag-netic field and provides insight into the local magnetic environment. All of these three methods are widely uti-lized to track the evolution of magnetic correlation, spin fluctuations, low-energy excitations, and magnetic order-ing, which is inaccessible through other bulk magnetiza-tion techniques [237, 242]. The normalized muon spin polarization function, 

Pα(t), with α = x, y, z , represents the projection of the ensemble-averaged muon spin along a chosen axis. The 

Pα(t) originates from the muon spin orientation after in-teraction with the local magnetic field, Bloc , which ex-erts a torque on the muon’s magnetic moment. The lo-cal field generally consists of dipolar contributions due to neighboring nuclear spins, and the electron spin ac-counts for the contact hyperfine term. For a static lo-cal field inclined at an angle θ relative to the initial muon spin, the muon polarization precesses around the field direction, and the longitudinal component of the polarization follows a characteristic time dependence: 

Pz (t) = cos 2 θ + sin 2 θ cos( γμBloc t). For a polycrystalline sample where the angle θ is uniformly distributed, the average muon polarization function typically follows the form: 

Pz (t) = 13 + 23 cos( ωμt),

The oscillations in muon polarization function (Fig. 7(c)) indicate that the material hosts magnetically long-range ordered state, where the magnetic fields are static and uniform[238, 242, 252]. In frustrated spin glass ma-terials, the local magnetic moments are disordered and exhibit slow fluctuations. Topological spin freezing in frustrated magnets, caused by competing exchange inter-actions, is marked by persistent spin dynamics linked to residual spin fluctuations, topologically non-trivial spin textures, and a wide range of local fields due to uneven magnetic correlations, which leads to a lower glass tem-perature. μSR is especially good at examining these fluc-tuations because it can reveal both static and dynamic 24 10 −4 10 −2 10 0 10 2 10 4 10 6 10 8 10 10 10 12 10 14 

Fluctuation rate (Hz) 

> Neutron scattering
> μSR NMR AC Susceptibility

0 4 8-1.0 -0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 

> Muon asymmetry

## t (μs) 

Magnetically ordered materials (Oscillatory) 

Spin glass (1/3 rd tail )

Spin liquid (Exponential) 

> 0.33

# (a)  (b) 

# (c)  (d) 

FIG. 7. μSR as a local probe to track novel ground states and low-energy excitations in frustrated magnets. 

(a) Spin-polarized muons are introduced into the sample, where their spin dynamics are tracked over time. This is achieved by detecting the time-dependent asymmetry A(t) in the emission of positrons, which are preferentially emitted along the direction of the muon spin at the moment of decay. (b) Schematic comparison of the frequency windows probed by various experimental techniques commonly employed to study spin dynamics in frustrated magnets, including spin glasses. Each technique—neutron scattering, μSR, NMR, and a.c. susceptibility—accesses a distinct range of electron spin fluctuation frequencies, spanning over several orders of magnitude. μSR is particularly sensitive to fast local fluctuations (KHz to GHz) and shares an interface with other complementary techniques as depicted, while a.c. susceptibility captures the slow collective dynamics (Hz to kHz), making their overlap narrow yet valuable in diagnosing glassy behavior. NMR bridges these regimes, providing site-specific insights into the spin environment. This comparative plot emphasizes the complementarity of these probes in mapping out the full dynamical landscape of emergent glassy or topologically constrained spin systems. (c) Time evolution of muon asymmetry in magnetically ordered, spin glass, and spin liquid materials. (d) Muon depolarization in hydronium iron jarosite H 3OFe 3(OH) 6(SO 4)2 at 5 K, conducted in zero field and with applied longitudinal fields up to 5 kG. Source: (a) adapted from [246] with permission, (b) adapted from [240] with permission, (d) adapted from [247] with permission from APS. 

behaviors of the local fields. In spin glasses, the muon spin relaxation displays unique signatures that vary with the timescale and dynamics of the local fields. A wide range of local fields results in a specific Kubo-Toyabe function: 

Pz (t) = 13 + 23

 1 − ∆2t2 exp 



− 12 ∆2t2



,

where ∆ is the size of the local field distribution.This function illustrates the relaxation of muon polarization due to local field inhomogeneities. The absence of co-herent oscillations in spin glasses, coupled with the dis-tinctive “1/3 tail” (Fig. 7(c)) observed at extended time intervals, indicates that the spin configurations are either frozen or disordered. This is common for unusual spin-glass materials, such as (H 3O)Fe 3(OH) 6(SO 4)2, which is shown in Fig. 7(d) [180, 237, 240]. 25 In systems with rapidly fluctuating local fields, such as those found in spin liquids, the muon polarization decays exponentially rather than oscillating(Fig. 7(c)) This can be described by a stretched exponential function[240]: 

Pz (t) = exp −(λt )β  ,

where λ is the muon spin relaxation rate, and β is the stretching exponent, which reflects the distribution of re-laxation rates in the system. The stretched exponential decay is commonly observed in spin liquids implying a distribution of relaxation times, where the local magnetic moments fluctuate on a timescale that is fast compared to the muon precession frequency, ν ≫ γμ 

> 2π

Blocal . The relaxation rate λ can be related to the fluctuation rate ν

and B loc of the local magnetic fields of electronic origin at the muon site via the Redfield relation[240, 253]: 

λ = 2γ2

> μ

B2

> local

νν2 + ( γμBo)2 .

The muon relaxation rate provides detailed insight into the spin dynamics of the system under study. The tem-perature dependence λ increases upon cooling and shows a plateau at low temperatures, which indicates persis-tence of spin dynamics at low temperatures. The plateau type nature is key signature of the spin-liquid ground state [237, 240].  

> IV. Candidate Quantum Materials for Topological Spin Freezing

Here, we present a few representative 2D and 3D frus-trated quantum magnets that are potential contenders for hosting topological spin freezing. We provide common experimental signatures through the lens of complemen-tary thermodynamic, NMR, μSR, and INS experiments that are compared with suitable theoretical models to draw a generic framework applicable to a large class of frustrated quantum materials. A comparative summary of the experimental signatures and theoretical features distinguishing canonical and topological spin glasses is presented in Table I.  

> A. Kagome lattice antiferromagnets

The kagome lattice is a two-dimensional network of corner-sharing triangles where each vertex is connected to four nearest neighbors. The two-dimensional na-ture, along with the low coordination number, makes it an ideal host for many unconventional magnetic and electronic behaviors [17, 233, 260–262]. In metallic kagome lattices, spin-orbit coupling brings about elec-tronic correlations that give rise to unconventional su-perconductivity, the anomalous Hall effect, magnetic skyrmions, Berry curvature-driven transport, and Weyl fermions [222, 232, 263]. In many cases, the observed physical properties of kagome compounds agree closely with theoretical expectations, reflecting the simplicity yet profound richness of the underlying spin-lattice. From an electronic viewpoint, kagome magnets are known for hosting a flat band along with a Dirac band in their band structure. The flat band in the kagome lattice arises from destructive interference between electron wave functions on the lattice. This behavior can be well described by a simple tight binding model where electrons hop be-tween nearest-neighbor sites, given by the Hamiltonian: 

H = −t P

> ⟨ij ⟩,s



c†

> i,s

cj,s + c†

> j,s

ci,s 



, where t is the hop-ping amplitude and c† 

> i,s

(ci,s ) are electron creation (an-nihilation) operators for spin s at site i [264]. The solu-tion to this simple model yields a flat band at E = −2t

across the Brillouin zone, which is a direct manifestation of the underlying geometry of the kagome lattice. The cancellation of hopping amplitudes in the eigenstates re-sults from interference conditions imposed by the lattice symmetry [264, 265]. Flat bands are far from a mathematical curiosity: they dramatically enhance electron–electron interactions, of-ten leading to correlation-driven ground states such as Mott insulators, unconventional superconductors, and fractional quantum Hall–like phases [266]. Alongside these, kagome materials frequently display Dirac-like dis-persions at special symmetry points in the Brillouin zone, where energy varies linearly with momentum. These Dirac cones host topologically protected edge states that are resilient to weak disorder, establishing kagome met-als as fertile ground for realizing quantum spin Hall ef-fects and Weyl semimetals [267, 268]. The coexistence of flat bands and Dirac cones within the same framework instigates a striking interplay between localization and itinerancy. Apart from its electronic properties, the unconven-tional spin freezing in kagome magnets with minimal structural disorder has attracted considerable atten-tion. A few promising examples include the magne-toplumbite SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 (SCGO) [183] and the spinel-type Ba 2Sn 2ZnCr 7pGa 10 −7pO22 (BSZCGO) [269]. These Cr 3+ -based Kagome–triangular slab (pyrochlore-derived) magnets show spin freezing even with weak quenched disorder. The unconventional spin freezing is the result of geometrical frustration and the pecu-liarity of kagome structure. Here, the intrinsic chiral-ity plays an important role. For classical Heisenberg spins on the kagome lattice, the system favors a 120 °

spin arrangement. Each triangular plaquette satisfies the constraint P 

> i∈△

Si = 0 . This P 

> i∈△

Si = 0 con-straint supports a manifold of highly degenerate coplanar ground states characterized by continuous spin-folding zero modes. These modes correspond to collective defor-mations of the spin configuration that preserve the local 120 ° constraint on each triangle. Such spin folds can either be open, extending across the lattice (Fig. 1(c), or closed, forming local loop-like excitations commonly referred to as weathervane modes. The open one is asso-26 

TABLE I. Fundamental differences between canonical and topological spin glasses. 

Feature Canonical Spin Glass Topological Spin Glass 

Origin of frustration Randomness and disorder (e.g. di-lute alloys) [52, 53, 79] Frustration due to the geometry of the spin lattice or competing exchange interactions with quantum fluctuations, even near the clean limit [61, 70, 73, 75] Driving mechanism Random RKKY interactions with varying sign [53] Lifting of degeneracy via order-by-quantum-fluctuations [61, 73] Topology of energy landscape Hierarchical rugged funnel with multiple energy scales [254] Nonhierarchical, wide, nearly flat but rough energy landscape [74] Energy scale hierarchy Strong hierarchy (ultrametric-like) [255] Weak hierarchy (uniform branching) Freezing temperature Tg Comparable to θCW , i.e., Tg ∼|θCW | so that the slowing down of spin fluctuations occur in a nar-rower region Tg ≤ T ≤ 2Tg [256] Much lower than θCW (Tg << |θCW |), so it provides a wide temperature range for slowing down of spin fluctuations [201] Aging effect Strong; appears even for short wait-ing times Weak at short times; develops slowly [74] Topological character Absent Present (topological constraints on spin dynamics) Spin stiffness No true rigidity [257] Finite effective stiffness supporting collec-tive modes [55, 258] Spin dynamics Localized cluster relaxation Collective, long-wavelength excitations Low-energy excitations Two-level systems and barrier hop-ping [54, 209] Gapless collective modes (Halperin–Saslow type) Sensitivity to impurities Strong Weak (robust near the clean limit) DC susceptibility (ZFC–FC split-ting) Strong bifurcation below Tg ; sharp onset Present but often broader and smoother onset Specific heat, Cp ∼ T [209] ∼ T D , where D is the effective dimension-ality [55, 57] Neutron scattering Broad, featureless magnetic scat-tering Finite-Q peaks indicating short-range cor-relations Dynamic susceptibility, χ′′ Lorentzian (localized relaxation) Broad spectrum with hydrodynamic con-tributions Correlation length Very short, no clear spatial struc-ture Finite short-range correlations with mea-surable length scale NMR Spectroscopy NMR line broadens significantly below Tg , Non-exponential mag-netization recovery as M (t) ∼

exp[ −(t/T 1)β ], β < 1 [259] NMR relaxation rate, 1/T 1 ∝ T D and the linewidth ∆H saturates below Tg with field independent nature [57, 180, 214] 

μSR measurement 1/3 tail recovery in ZF [238] 1/3 tail recovery in ZF or undecouplable Gaussian relaxation in LF polarization due to formation short-lived singlets with no 

1/3 tail recovery [201] Representative systems CuMn, AuFe alloys with distribu-tion of magnetic moments are less dense (below threshold limit) in real space SCGO( p), NiGa 2S4, Li 2RhO 3 with high density of magnetic moments near to clean limit 

ciated with uniform-chirality state called the q = 0 state (Fig. 1(b)), and the closed loop has staggered chirality with a √3×√3 structure. The scalar chirality on a trian-gle is defined as γ = 23√3 (S1 × S2 + S2 × S3 + S3 × S1) ,

serving as a way to measure the topological winding and handedness of spins on that triangular motif [62, 63]. The introduction of an infinitesimal XY anisotropy in frustrated kagome magnets introduces a new length 27 scale, l0, beyond which out-of-plane spin fluctuations ac-quire a finite energy cost, effectively suppressing the long-wavelength renormalization of spin stiffness [62]. This anisotropy energetically favors coplanar spin configura-tions and converts what would otherwise be a crossover behavior into a genuine Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT) tran-sition at a temperature TKT . In this regime, topologi-cal defects become bound below TKT , while remaining unbound above a higher crossover scale Tχ, leading to a complex thermodynamic landscape. Even exponen-tially small amounts of anisotropy are sufficient to in-duce this transition, characterized by a transformation from a defect-rich regime at high temperatures to a low-temperature phase with an exponentially small density of defects. The KT phase transition sees a divergence in spin correlation length below the transition temper-ature [270]. In the kagome lattice, there appear to be two types of defects. One is the line defects, which are open loops with uniform chirality (see Fig. 1(b)), while the other is closed loops with alternating chirality. Along these line or loop defects, spins can rotate freely without incurring any energy. These defects are a natural con-sequence of geometrical frustration in the kagome struc-ture. The conventional KT transition involves the 360 °

vortex–antivortex pairs [271]. In the kagome case, how-ever, the lattice geometry and frustration enable defects with lower winding angles of 120 ° vortices. Compara-tively, this carries a smaller gradient field that the full 360 ◦. As it costs less energy to produce these fractional defects than to create a full 360 ◦ vortex, the transition temperature is reduced. The theoretical upper bound, 

TKT ≈ |θCW | 

> 48

arises from calculations of these defect en-ergies and matches well with what is observed in real kagome spin glasses [71]. The predicted KT-transition temperature in the hydronium and deuterium jarosite matches well with the glass transition temperature Tg .A few representative kagome magnets exhibiting un-conventional glassy dynamics is presented in Table II and the specific heat with quadratic T 2− dependence is de-picted in the Fig. 9(a). Kagome-derived frustrated mag-nets SrCr 8.82 Ga 3.18 O19 and Ba 2Sn 2Ga 3ZnCr 7O22 are highly frustrated, and this, in turn gives rise to collective low-energy excitations below the glass transition temper-ature with a renormalized spin stiffness as predicted by the hydrodynamic theory of spin glasses [193, 269]. The kagome spin lattice retains the memory of past defect movements. The defect dynamics become even more complex due to the presence of non-Abelian discli-nations. In this case, the homotopy group that deter-mines how defects interact is non-Abelian, which makes the system path-dependent [62]. To capture this com-plex development, one observes the chirality overlap func-tion defined as: γoverlap = 1

> N

P

> ⟨i,j ⟩

⃗γ i ·⃗γ j ,. It mea-sures how the spatial correlation between chiralities ⃗γ i

and ⃗ γ j of neighboring triangular plaquettes is associ-ated in a coplanar spin configuration [63]. These chi-ral degrees of freedom arise as collective fluctuations of a higher order that are beyond the harmonic spin-wave 0 5 10 15 20       

> 10 -2
> 10 -1
> 10 0
> 10 1
> Relaxation rate 1/T 1 (mS-1 )
> T(K) 0510 15 20
> 0.5
> 1.0
> 1.5
> 2.0
> b
> T(K)

# (a) 

# (b)  (c)         

> FIG. 8. Longitudinal field-dependent muon polariza-tion in kagome lattices. (a) LF muon polarization for kagome lattice SrCr 8Ga 4O19 measured at 100 mK. (a) Muon spin relaxation rate 1/T 1recorded in an applied field of 10 mT and fitted with a power-law exponential form of e−(t/T 1)β
> .The corresponding coefficient βis given in (c) as a function of temperature. Adapted from refs. [201, 272].

theory and emerges within the semiclassical manifold of the kagome antiferromagnet. Non-Abelian disclinations put strong constraints on defect dynamics, thereby sup-pressing thermal activation by slowing down the relax-ation processes. The higher-order spin-wave fluctuations can stabilize staggered chiral states in kagome antiferro-magnets by pushing the system into local minima of the energy landscape [273]. These emergent chiral states are characterized by nontrivial scalar chirality and are rele-vant to topological spin glass behavior in kagome mag-nets. Here, the spin freezing not a mere manifestation of random orientation of spin dipoles; instead, it is the chiral order that drives the freezing phenomenon. How-ever, the complete description of the global energy land-scape is still unresolved. The self-energy corrections from anharmonic fluctuations are complex and depend on the wavevector, which makes it hard to state whether the chi-ral state is the true ground state or merely a metastable one [62]. This intricate energy landscape could be re-sponsible for the partial ordering or glassy freezing seen in kagome systems like SCGO and similar compounds. An interesting result is observed in the μSR data of SrCr 8Ga 4O19 (SCGO with p = 8/9) spin glass with 

Tg = 3 .5 K [201]. The zero field μSR asymmetry func-tion doesn’t show 1/3 recovery in zero field data down to 100 mK. In case of static magnetic fields, the μSR re-laxation function should exhibit Gaussian damping and 28 recovery to 1/3 initial symmetry. Conversely, a dynamic field leads to exponential or stretched-exponential re-laxation without such recovery. For SrCr 8Ga 4O19 , the muon polarization function P exp  

> z

(t) is well fitted with 

P exp  

> z

(t) = exp[ −(t/T 1)β ] (Fig. 8(a)). The relaxation rate 

1/T 1 showed an increase by over 2 orders of magnitude while cooling from 20 K to 100 mK, and it saturates be-low Tg . This marks a gradual slowing of Cr 3+ spin fluc-tuations over a wide temperature range, whereas in the canonical spin glass it is narrower. The line shape below 

Tg apparently approaches a Gaussian shape with β = 2 

as T → 0. This Gaussian shape is expected for a dense static random field near the muon site, and a small field is enough to cause a decoupling of the LF P exp  

> z

(t). How-ever, the observed LF μSR spectra, as shown in Fig.8(a), show no significant field dependence upto 200 mT. The observed “undecoublable Gaussian” suggests the forma-tion of short-lived singlet pairs (RVB-like correlations). Furthermore, the formation of short-lived singlets sup-presses the local magnetic field for most of the time, and a small fraction of unpaired magnetic moments intermit-tently generate strong local fields at the muon site, which produces an unexpected “undecoublable Gaussian” line that mimics a static dense field distribution. The slow-ing of spin dynamics over a broad temperature range, along with undecoupled lines, suggests that the low-energy state is mainly driven by quantum fluctuations, and the freezing is seemingly spin-liquid-driven glassi-ness. The undecouplable spectral lines can have another origin too. For example, when considering the approxi-mate pyrochlore structure of SrCr 8Ga 4O19 by connecting the sandwiched triangular layer to the nearby kagome layers, we obtain a near pyrochlore structure. Like in pyrochlore ZnCr 2O4, the Cr moments form a composite structure of hexagonal spin loops, and each loop is char-acterized by a “director”. The undecoupled nature of the muon spin relaxation response may be due to the slow, large-amplitude fluctuations of these directors [274]. Herbertsmithite ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2 is a nearly perfect re-alization of the S = 1 /2 kagome Heisenberg antiferro-magnet [13, 251]. Despite the large Curie-Weiss tem-perature θCW ≈ − 300 K, it does not order down to sub-Kelvin temperatures [232]. However, when a mod-erate magnetic field is applied, the QSL state becomes unstable. It then transitions into a frozen spin-solid state below a characteristic temperature Tc(H), which rises with increasing field strength [275]. In this region, the spin fluctuations are exponentially suppressed and a spin gap of about ∆ ≈ 2.3 kB Tc opens up. Static mag-netic moments also appear, with a magnitude of roughly 

0.1 μB — much smaller than the full moment expected for a Cu 2+ spin-1/2. This strong reduction highlights the effect of quantum renormalization [275]. Interest-ingly, the transition shows no critical divergence in the spin-lattice relaxation rate. Instead, the NMR spectra have Gaussian line shapes, pointing to a static yet spa-tially disordered state. The Dzyaloshinskii–Moriya (DM) interactions in this material is estimated to be around 

D ∼ 0.04 J − 0.08 J [276, 277] and places Herbertsmithite near a quantum critical point at Dc ∼ 0.1J [278]. At this point, the system can transition from a QSL to an ordered phase. The applied magnetic field, along with the DM interactions, drives the system across this QCP. This is supported by the scaling relation Tc ∝ (B − Bc)ϕ,with Bc ≈ 1.55 T and ϕ ≈ 0.6, indicating that the freez-ing arises from field-induced quantum criticality [275]. The emergent freezing arises from the intrinsic many-body effects, and it challenges the realization of a true QSL. In summary, the intrinsic spin freezing phenomenon in frustrated kagome magnets arises from the interplay be-tween emergent defects and the non-Abelian nature of their dynamics. In these systems, XY anisotropy, com-plex defects, and chiral order produce spin relaxation which are dominated by the braiding of defect config-urations. The combined effect of XY anisotropy, non-Abelian defects, and complex chiral order leads to this intrinsic glassiness. The spin relaxation is mainly dom-inated by the non-trivial braiding of defect configura-tions rather than simple thermal excitations. To illus-trate the role of topological defects in glassy behavior, let us consider an example from a non-magnetic system. Such as the recent study on crystallization of a spherical surface shows that topological constraints can drive the system into a glassy state [317]. The topological con-straint imposed by geometry on a spherical surface re-quires the existence of at least twelve five-coordinated disclinations [318]. Grain-boundary scars are frequently formed by additional defects to further alleviate the stress caused by curvature [317]. These inevitable defects re-main mobile and tend to cluster in certain regions, lead-ing to persistent structural and dynamical heterogeneity. Even though such systems are not magnetic, they show the universality of topological defects in forming glassy states.  

> B. Triangular lattice antiferromagnets

Two-dimensional triangular lattice antiferromagnets are formed by edge-sharing triangular motifs with mag-netic moments at the vertices of the triangle, with each magnetic moment is connected to six neighbors. Trian-gular lattice is the simplest prototype to demonstrate geometric frustration. The presence of geometric frustra-tion in the antiferromagnetic interaction of spin moments leads to substantial degeneracy. The strong quantum fluctuations that arise from magnetic frustration prevent long-range magnetic ordering even at absolute zero tem-perature. Thereby, this can pave the way for the realiza-tion of a diverse array of quantum phenomena in the frus-trated spin lattice. G.H. Wannier’s pioneering work on the statistical behavior of the two-dimensional Ising an-tiferromagnetic triangular lattice attracted early interest in the study of frustrated spin networks [5]. For nearest-neighbor Heisenberg interactions, the classical ground 29 

TABLE II. Magnetic and thermodynamic parameters of frustrated quantum magnets exhibiting unconventional spin-freezing behavior (Part I). 

Material [ref.] Lattice Effective Spin 

Tg (K) θCW (K) f = |θCW | 

> Tg

Topological characteris-tics 

(H 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OH) 6 [279] Kagome 5/2 16.5 -833 50.5 Local constraint P

> △

⃗ S = 0 ;emergent divergence-free field; loop (weathervane/spin fold) modes; fractionalized excitations in quantum limit (D 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OD) 6 [280] Kagome 5/2 13.8 -700 50.7 Cd 2Cu 3(OH) 6(SO 4)2·4H 2O[281] Kagome 1/2 5 -40.5 8.1 BCGO ( p = 0 .902 ) [282] Kagome 3/2 5 -695 139 SrCr 8.82 Ga 3.18 O19 [193] Kagome 3/2 3.5 -500 143 Ba 2Sn 2Ga 3ZnCr 7O22 [283] Kagome 3/2 1.5 -312 208 Mn 3C6S6 [284] Kagome 5/2 12 -253 21 Mn 2Ga 2S5 [203] Triangular 5/2 12 -260 22 No strict local constraint; frustration-driven 120 ◦

manifold; topological defects (Z 2 vortices); chirality as emergent degree of freedom; defect-mediated transitions NiGa 2S4 [285] Triangular 1 8 -80 10 FeGa 2S4 [286] Triangular 2 16 -160 10 Ni 0.7Zn 0.3Ga 2S4 [285] Triangular 1 4.5 -57 12.7 CuCrSSe [287] Triangular 3/2 18 -81 4.5 Cu 2(OH) 3(C 7H15 COO)[288] Triangular 1/2 20 -140 7FeAl 2Se 4[204] Triangular 2 14 -200 14 YbZnGaO 4[289] Triangular 1/2 0.1 -2.46 24.6 NaRuO 2[290] Triangular 1/2 1.5 – –Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6[60] Square 1/2 1.7 -71 41.8 Valence-bond-glass state with disorder-induced spin-liquid correlations Li 2RhO 3 [180] Kitaev 1/2 6 -60 10 Exact local integrals of motion ( Z2 flux); fractionalization into Majorana fermions + gauge field; non-Abelian anyons (with field) Ru 0.9Cr 0.1Cl 3 [291] Kitaev – 3.1 -85 28 Na 2Ir 0.89 Ti 0.11 O3 [292] Kitaev 1/2 5 -55 11 Na 2Ir 0.9Ru 0.1O3 [293] Kitaev 1/2 5.6 -127 23 Li 2Ir 0.91 Ti 0.09 O3 [292] Kitaev 1/2 3.5 -33 9Li 2Ir 0.78 Ti 0.22 O3 [292] Kitaev 1/2 2 -33 16 

state adopts on a 120 ° coplanar configuration and long-range order can survive even at T = 0 K [319–321]. How-ever, the next-nearest-neighbor interaction, anisotropic exchange interaction, and structural disorder can induce exotic many-body phenomena in frustrated triangular lattice antiferromagnets [12, 15, 17]. It has been sug-gested that quantum fluctuations can stabilize a resonat-ing valence bond state in spin-1/2 Heisenberg triangular 30 

TABLE III. Magnetic and thermodynamic parameters of frustrated quantum magnets exhibiting unconventional spin-freezing behavior (Part II, continued). 

Material [ref.] Lattice Effective Spin 

Tg (K) θCW (K) f = |θCW | 

> Tg

Topological characteris-tics 

β-ZnIrO 3 [294] Hyperhoneycomb 1/2 12 45 3.75 3D extension of Kitaev physics; loop-like Z2 flux excitations 

β-MgIrO 3 [295] Hyperhoneycomb 1/2 23 62 2.7 Y2Mo 2O7 [191] Pyrochlore 1 22 -200 9 Strong local constraint P

> tetra

⃗ S = 0 ; emergent Coulomb phase; deconfined magnetic monopoles; Dirac strings; pinch-point correlations; emergent hexagonal loop excitations Lu 2Mo 2O7 [296] Pyrochlore 1 16 -160 10 Y2Ru 2O7 [297, 298] Pyrochlore 1 76 -1250 16.5 Y1.75 La 0.25 Ru 2O7 [299] Pyrochlore 1 69 -893 12.8 Y2Ir 2O7 [300, 301] Pyrochlore 1/2 150 -386 2.5 NaCaNi 2F7 [302] Pyrochlore 1 3.6 -129 36 NaCaCo 2F7 [303, 304] Pyrochlore 1 2.4 -140 56 CsNiCrF 6 [305] Pyrochlore – 2.3 -60 26 ZnCr 1.6Ga 0.4O4 [306, 307] Pyrochlore 3/2 2.4 -115 48 Zn 0.95 Cd 0.05 Cr 2O4 [308, 309] Pyrochlore 3/2 10 -500 50 Na 4Ir 3O8 [187] Hyperkagome 1/2 6 -650 108 3D corner-sharing network; loop constraints; quantum spin liquid candidate; ex-tended fractionalization Gd 5Ga 5O12 [310] Hyperkagome 7/2 0.14 -2 14.3 KSrFe 2(PO 4)3 [311] Trillium 5/2 3.5 -70 20 non-centrosymmetric cubic symmetry and structural chirality (Fe,Ga) 2TiO 5 [312] Pseudobrookite 5/2 55 -900 16 Competing exchange paths; frustration without well-defined topological con-straint Ca 2LaRuO 6 [313] double-perovskite 5/2 13 -137 10.5 spin-orbit coupled state; va-lence bond-glass formation (Mo-variant) Sr 2CaReO 6 [314] double-perovskite 1/2 14 -443 31.6 Ba 2YMoO 6 [315, 316] double-perovskite 1/2 1.3 -160 123 

antiferromagnets [6]. The finite-temperature behavior of the triangular an-tiferromagnet has possible instabilities toward topolog-ical defect binding to promote anomalous spin freez-ing [189]. In particular, theoretical and numerical studies have proven that the triangular lattice supports Z2 vor-tices, which are topological point defects of the vector spin chirality that arise from the nontrivial homotopy of the 120 ◦ spin structure. These excitations originate from the noncollinear 120 ◦ spin configuration and can unbind upon heating, thereby producing slow spin dynamics and possible finite-T phase transitions. Such a phase transi-tion does not necessarily exhibit a sharp anomaly in any thermodynamic quantity. The Z2 vortices originate from the topology of the noncollinear order parameter. The 120 ◦ state is special only up to a global spin rotation and a global spin reflection. Consequently, the associated order-parameter manifold is SO (3) , associated with an oriented triad of spin directions. Its fundamental group, 

π1(SO (3)) = Z2, hosts stable point defects, recognized 31 0 10 20      

> 0
> 1
> 2
> Ru 0.9 Cr 0.1 Cl 3
> Li 2RhO 3
> Li 2Ir 0.91 Ti 0.09 O3
> Li 2Ir 0.78 Ti 0.22 O3
> Na 2Ir 0.9 Ru 0.1 O3
> T20510 15
> 0
> 1
> 2
> 3Ba 2Sn 2Ga 3ZnCr 7O22
> SrCr 8.82 Ga 3.18 O19 (´0.6) Cd 2Cu 3(OH) 6(SO 4)2.4H 2O(D 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OD) 6
> (H 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OH) 6(´0.1)

T 2C (J/mol -K)      

> C (J/mol -K)
> C (J/mol -K)
> T(K) T(K) T(K)

(a)  (b)  (c) CuCrSSe      

> Mn 2Ga 2S5
> FeAl 2Se 4
> T2
> Ni 0.7 Zn 0.3 Ga 2S4(×3)
> NiGa 2S4(×3)
> Cu 2(OH) 3(C 7H15 COO) 0510 15 20
> 0
> 5
> 10
> 15
> )
> )
> )

FIG. 9. Temperature dependence of the magnetic specific heat in frustrated spin glasses Temperature dependence of some of the frustrated spin glasses (a) kagome, (b) triangular, and (c) honeycomb spin lattices. The low-temperature regime (below Tg ) is analyzed using spin stiffness fitting, providing insights into the nature of the ground state and the role of frustration in governing low-energy excitations, as discussed in the text. The data presented here are adapted from the references listed in Tables I and II. 

as Z2 vortices [322]. In classical Heisenberg triangular antiferromagnets, a finite-temperature transition associ-ated with the binding and unbinding of these vortices has been proposed and supported by Monte Carlo simula-tions [65, 323]. Importantly, this transition is not equiva-lent to the Berezinskii– Kosterlitz–Thouless (BKT) tran-sition of the XY model. More precisely, the BKT transi-tion in systems possessing a continuous U(1) symmetry takes place with topological excitations: the integer vor-tices are characterized by the winding of the spin angle 

θ [271]. In such a scenario, the BKT transition, at some finite characteristic temperature TBKT , is believed to be related to the vortex-antivortex pairing. This, in turn, leads to the propagation of the long-wavelength spin-wave excitations due to algebraic spin-correlation de-cay. Here, the spin wave propagates coherently through the system. Contrasting this, in the triangular-lattice Heisenberg antiferromagnet, the binding of Z2 vortices gives rise to topological ordering. The spin-wave prop-agates only within the coherent domains of the spin-gel state. This leads to slow and overdamped dynam-ics rather than coherent, long-range spin-wave propaga-tion [323]. A canonical example of triangular frustrated spin glass is the S = 1 NiGa 2S4 [189]. Despite the large antiferro-magnetic Curie-Weiss temperature ( θCW = −80 K), it does not show any long-range magnetic ordering down to sub-Kelvin temperatures. Instead, it exhibits short-range spin correlations with incommensurate wavevectors and finite correlation lengths below the spin glass transition 

Tg ∼ 8 K [324, 325]. The bulk thermodynamic mea-surements provide evidence for the occurrence of anoma-lous spin freezing in novel frustrated magnets. The ob-served magnetic specific heat exhibits two broad peaks at different temperature ranges (see Fig. 10(b)). The temperature region below the low-temperature broad peak exhibits a T 2 power-law behavior. This indicates the presence of Goldstone modes emerging in this two-dimensional triangular lattice without any long-range magnetic ordering [207, 326]. The NMR spin lattice re-laxation rate shows 1/T 1 ∝ T 3 at temperatures below 1 K as shown in Fig. 10(c) [208]. Both the NMR and ESR studies further reveal the anomalous line broaden-ing and slowing down of spin dynamics below Tg , which suggests the presence of some exotic low energy excita-tions in this Ni-based triangular lattice [57]. The spin freezing observed in NiGa 2S4 has been suggested as a phenomenon of topological origin. This phenomenon is thought to result from the pairing of Z2 vortices inherent in the frustrated Heisenberg triangular lattice [326, 327]. Neutron scattering performed at 1.5 K suggests that the intra-plane spatial spin correlations extend up to seven lattice spacings, and in comparison, the interplane corre-lation is very weak (Fig. 10(d)). An alternative perspec-tive on the unconventional spin freezing behavior can be obtained from the role of quadrupolar or spin-nematic correlations, which appear naturally in the case of S = 1 

Ni 2+ moments. The spin nematic states emerge from the dominant contribution of higher-rank spin correlations, which give rise to long-range order of spin tensors. This is in contrast to the conventional long-range ordering due to spin dipole moments [206, 207]. It thus accounts for the absence of magnetic Bragg peaks in neutron scatter-ing below Tg while low-energy spin excitations along with finite susceptibility survive. In these cases, freezing re-sults from the slowing down of the nematic directors that give rise to a hidden order with slow, critical-like fluctu-ations in the low-temperature limit. A valuable com-parison can be made with the isostructural compound FeGa 2S4 (S = 2 ). The μSR experiments show an onset of quasistatic magnetism at T ≈ 31 K, well above a lower freezing temperature Tg ≈ 16 K [328]. Both the NiGa 2S4

and FeGa 2S4 exhibit field-independent specific heat with a two-peak nature in Cm/T . The high-temperature peak is observed at 60 K, and the lower one is visible at 10 K [286]. Interestingly, triangular lattice Mn 2Ga 2S5

shows a spin-glass-like freezing near the temperature 12 K, where the magnetic specific heat follows a quadratic 32 (b) 

# (c) 

# (d) 

# (a) 

> 𝐶 𝑀 /𝑇  (J/mol -K2)

FIG. 10. Unconventional spin freezing in frustrated triangular lattice antiferromagnet (a) Temperature dependence of DC magnetic susceptibility measured under various applied fields. (b) Magnetic specific heat ( CM , left axis) of polycrystalline NiGa 2S4 under different magnetic fields, plotted on a full logarithmic scale. The temperature dependence of entropy ( SM , right axis) at 0 T (blue) and 7 T (red). Inset: CM /T versus temperature at zero field. The solid line indicates the quadratic behavior of CM. (c) Nuclear quadrupole resonance relaxation rates (spin-lattice relaxation rate, 1/T 1 and spin-lattice relaxation rate, 

1/4T2) as functions of temperature for 69 Ga(1) and 69 Ga (2) sites. (d) Elastic neutron scattering intensity difference between 1.5 K and 15 K, with the red horizontal bar denoting the FWHM resolution width.The red solid line depicts the calculated pattern fir the quasi-2D structure and ∼ Q2 term (dashed) to account for nuclear incoherent scattering. Source:(a,b,d) adapted from [189] with permission from AAAS, (c) adapted from [208] with permission from APS. 

power-law behavior (Fig. 9(b)) and the ac susceptibility reveals strong frequency dependence [203]. The above study highlights unconventional spin freezing in triangu-lar lattices, and some representative candidate materials with their unique characteristic features are presented in Table II and the specific heat with quadratic T 2− depen-dence is depicted in the Fig. 9(b). Now moving towards the 4f triangular frustrated glassy magnets, YbZnGaO 4 and its sister compounds ex-hibit anomalous glassy dynamics at low temperatures be-low the characteristic exchange energy scale [218, 289, 329, 330]. The specific heat shows a broad anomaly at a temperature slightly above the glass transition tempera-ture. Spin freezing associated with this 4 f oxide is quite different from that of transition metal-based Mott insu-lating spin glasses. Because the 4 f orbitals are highly localized as compared to their 3 d counterparts, the ef-fective exchange energy is typically much smaller than that of the 3 d frustrated magnets. In 4f magnetic oxides, the low-energy magnetic properties are largely shaped by single-ion anisotropy, which originates from the in-terplay of spin-orbit coupling and splitting of multiplets due to the crystalline electric field (CEF) [15, 331–333]. The ground state is often a CEF doublet or singlet with a strong anisotropic g-tensor, and the low-energy exci-tations are mainly the transition between CEF levels rather than gapless modes. The anisotropy present in 4f -based frustrated spin glass can gap out the transverse spin-wave modes [55]. The nature of low-energy exci-tations in the spin glass state of YbZnGaO 4 is mainly governed by the localized excitations. Such behavior underlines the distinct nature of the spin glass state in 33 this material. Localized modes, which are also observed in 2D amorphous glasses, indicate regions of structural irregularities where plastic deformation is likely to oc-cur [77]. Those modes usually correspond to topological defects [78] and serve as a precursor of shear transfor-mation upon mechanical stress [77]. Another example is the triangular lattice spin glass TmMgGaO 4, which contains Tm 3+ ions with an electronic configuration of 4f 12 and a total angular momentum J = 6 [334, 335]. These ions, due to crystal-electric-field splitting, form a non-Kramers ground state doublet that is well separated from higher energy levels by approximately 400 K [336], and the material can be treated as low spin system at low temperatures. This compound, as a quantum Ising magnet, shows that quenched disorder coupled with in-terlayer coupling in the triangular lattice Ising antiferro-magnet transforms the emergent 2D BKT phase into a U(1) gauge glass. This, in turn, gives rise to an emergent HS mode [218]. The weak quenched disorder favors the emergence of the HS mode [61], while the ferromagnetic interlayer coupling makes the 2D gauge glass become a 3D gauge glass in which the HS mode survives [218].  

> C. Square lattice antiferromagnets

The square lattice, a fundamental geometry of bipar-tite latice in condensed matter physics, hosts a variety of fascinating quantum states, including high-TC super-conductors, spin liquids, and non-collinear magnetic or-dering, etc. Lars Onsager’s pioneering work on the fer-romagnetic Ising square lattice showed that even in a 2D system [337], a finite-temperature phase transition from a disordered to an ordered magnetic state is possible. Another fascinating property in a square lattice is the physics of superconductivity in many copper ox-ide materials. Some cuprate oxides materials such as (La, Sr) 2CuO 4 and YBa 2Cu 3O7, where Cu 2+ (S = 1 /2)ion constitute a square planar coordination with oxygen atoms, exhibit strong covalent bonding between copper and oxygen through the hybridization of 3 d and 2 p or-bitals. These CuO 2 planes play a vital role in realizing su-perconductivity, where Cu-O bonds in these planes form high covalency. The key requirement for superconduc-tivity to form an electron pair comes from the multiple oxidation states of copper atoms(Cu +, Cu 2+ , Cu 3+ ) in the Cu-O bond [338]. Although the cuprate lattices described in terms of perovskite-related structures, the conducive electronic structure elucidates from the square CuO 2 planes. The chemical bonds of Cu-O contributing to the states near the Fermi level are anti-bonding in nature, which contributes to the superconductive states. As atwo-dimensional geometry, the cuprate square lattices lead antiferromagnetic spin fluctuations, which strongly renormalize the ground-state properties. The CuO 2

planes create unconventional pairing channels, mostly the 

d-wave pairing symmetry observed in high TC cuprate superconductors [44, 339]. Beyond this superconduc-tivity, the square lattice is also important for explor-ing frustration-induced quantum states such as quantum spin liquid and spin glass. The nearest and next-nearest neighbor antiferromagnetic couplings ( J1 − J2model) in square lattice introduce competing exchange pathways, which are capable of destabilizing conventional Néel or-der and give a complex magnetic ground state [340, 341]. The square lattice offers a versatile platform to study the transition between these phases. For instance, tuning the square lattice material by controlled external stimuli such as doping, hydrostatic pressure can drive the system from a superconducting state to a spin-liquid-like state or a spin-glass phase. The coexistence of spin-glass and spin-liquid states in the Li-doped quasi-two-dimensional square lattice systems such as La 2Cu 1−xLi xO4 reveals the subtle interplay between disorder and quantum fluc-tuations [342]. The interconnection between all of these phases suggests that spin fluctuations in the square plane and frustration play a crucial role in hosting these phe-nomena. The spin freezing phenomena in this doped cuprate superconductor suggest that glassy spin dynam-ics may underlie the disruption of long-range coherence, coexistance with fast spin fluctuations, offering a micro-scopic window on how magnetic disorder breaks super-conductivity and the emergence of unconventional pair-ing mechanisms [343–345]. In spin- 12 square lattice Heisenberg antiferromagnets, the interplay between nearest-neighbor ( J1) and next-nearest-neighbor ( J2) interactions leads to exchange frus-tration. Within the range 0.4 ⩽ J2 

> J1

⩽ 0.6, a quan-tum disordered ground state can be realized [231]. The square lattice Sr 2CuTeO 6 with spin S = 1 /2 shows an-tiferromagnetic long-range ordering at 29 K. Here, the magnetic interaction is mainly due to nearest-neighbor exchange J1 = −7.18 meV and a weaker next-nearest-neighbor interaction ( J2 = −0.21 meV) [346]. Substitut-ing Te 6+ at W 6+ in the square-lattice Sr 2CuWO 6 results in columnar Néel ordering, with a lower Néel tempera-ture ( TN ) of 24 K. This columnar ordering arises due to magnetic interactions characterized by J1 = −1.2 meV and J2 = −9.5 meV [347, 348]. This indicates that the magnetic ground state is heavily influenced by the cation composition. The W 6+ is a d0 cation, while Te 6+ is a 

d10 cation. By varying the proportions of these ions in the compound Sr 2CuTe xW1−xO6, the magnetic ground state of the square Cu 2+ lattice can be tuned accord-ingly [349]. For a 50:50 % composition of Te 6+ and W 6+ 

in Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6, no magnetic ordering is observed down to sub-Kelvin temperatures despite a strong an-tiferromagnetic interaction as indicated by θCW = −71 

K [231, 349–351]. Specific heat measurements show a change from linear to quadratic behaviour below 7 K and 1.5 K, respectively. This means that the material goes from being a spin liquid to a frozen state because of local freezing effects caused by the random distribution of Te and W ions [231]. Neutron scattering experiments on Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O634 (a)  (b) 

# (c)  (d)              

> FIG. 11. Inelastic neutron scattering probing novel quantum states in frustrated magnets .Color con-tour maps illustrate the low-energy spin fluctuations in Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6, obtained via inelastic neutron scattering with an incident energy of 1.55 meV. Measurements were con-ducted at temperatures of 0.25 K, 1.70 K, 4.00 K, and 7.00 K. Source: adapted from [60] with permission from APS.

confirmed the transition from a dynamic state to a weakly frozen state at temperatures below 1.7 K [60]. The imaginary part of the dynamic susceptibility, χ′′ , de-rived from the neutron scattering cross section S(Q, ℏω), demonstrates a linear relationship with temperature for energy transfers where ℏω < k B Tg . The existence of weak frozen moments indicates the equilibrium between quantum fluctuations and static spin correlations influ-enced by bond randomness. The dynamic structure fac-tor S(Q, ℏω), examined at temperatures of 7 K, 4 K, 1.7 K, and 0.25 K, as illustrated in Fig. 11, reveals gapless excitations near Q ≈ 0.6 Å−1 and maintains this gapless-ness down to ℏω ≈ 0.05 meV, which corresponds to the antiferromagnetic wave vector of (1/2,0,0) and reflects the system’s intrinsic magnetic structure. As the temper-ature drops from 7 K to 1.7 K, the intensity of S(Q, ℏω)

rises above 0.3 meV, and the spectral weight moves to lower energies. It is surprising that when the tempera-ture drops from 1.7 K to 0.25 K, S(Q, ℏω) weakens below 0.2 meV. This shows that spin freezing occurs as the tem-perature approaches closer to the critical point. Together with this result with linear energy dependence of the dy-namic susceptibility χ′′ (ℏω) suggests that a significant portion of the spectral weight with approximately 99.4 %

of the total spectral weight being fluctuating rather than static. the specific heat measurement shows a quadratic power-law dependence on temperature. These results emphasize that quantum fluctuations and partial spin freezing coexist, giving rise to rich and unconventional spin dynamics. Muon spectroscopy shows that Sr 2CuWO 6 and Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6 have different magnetic properties. In Sr 2CuWO 6, long-range Néel order manifests at 24 K, as indicated by oscillatory asymmetry in the ZF-μSR spec-tra [352]. Above this transition temperature at 30 K (Fig. 12(a)), the spectra do not show any oscillations, which means that the state is paramagnetic. Below TN

at 4.7 K, the oscillatory signal remained strong, indi-cating that the ordered phase is stable and the inter-nal field is well-defined. The 1/3 asymptotic behaviour of the depolarization curve below TN shows that the sample is polycrystalline. One-third of the implanted muon spins align with the local field and do not pre-cess, while the other two-thirds experience transverse components that cause depolarization [240].In the case of Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6, the ZF-μSR spectra show a different pattern of behavior [349]. The time-dependent polarisa-tion function, Gz (t), which is directly linked to the asym-metry, does not exhibit oscillatory behavior or the typical recovery of the asymmetry to 1/3 in zero field measure-ments down to 19 mK as shown in Fig. 12(b) [352]. As shown in Fig. 12(b), the depolarization increases as the temperature decreases, indicating a broadening of the internal field distribution at lower temperatures. Fit-ting the depolarization function using a power-law form 

Gz (t) = exp[ −(λt )β ] reveals that above 2 K, β is close to 1. However, as the temperature decreases, β increases toward 1.8 [349]. In topological spin glasses, a Gaussian-like relaxation with β ≈ 2 is characteristic, as observed in the spin glass SrCr 8Ga 4O19 . The relaxation rate λ in-creases at low temperatures, which is consistent with the picture that local field fluctuations become slower. The absence of a 1/3 tail in μSR in Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6 com-pound can be ascribed to its topological spin-glass like nature, since 1% of spins are frozen as estimated from neutron scattering measurements [60]. Neutron scatter-ing experiments reveal that spin-wave like excitations of dynamic spin correlations extended over the entire mag-netic bandwidth even in the presence of partial spin freez-ing [60]. This observation suggests that the existence of spin wave excitations defies standard paradigm, suggest-ing to an unconventional interplay between frozen and dynamic spin components. The observation of low-energy, linearly dispersing exci-tations and a corresponding linear dependence of the dy-namic susceptibility in Sr 2CuTe 0.5 W0.5O6 suggests the presence of gapless modes associated with finite spin stiff-ness in a partially frozen state. In Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6, the interplay between quantum fluctuations (due to S = 1 /2

for Cu 2+ ) and bond disorder leads to a crossover regime in which both thermodynamic and microscopic probes reveal signatures of collective, glassy spin dynamics with quasi-linear excitation spectra. 35 Sr 2CuWO 6

# Sr 2CuTe 0.5 W0.5 O6

# (a) 

# (b)           

> FIG. 12. μSR as alocal probe to track intriguing quantum states and excitations in frustrated magnets .(a) Zero-field muon spin relaxation asymmetry as function of time in Sr 2CuWO 6.(b)Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6recorded at various temperatures, illustrating the evolution of intriguing ground states and associated spin dynamics with decreasing temper-ature. Source: (a) adapted from [352] with permission from APS, (b) adapted from [349] with permission from NPG.
> D. Kitaev magnets

The honeycomb lattice is well recognized for its geo-metric efficiency and mechanical stability in both natural and engineered systems [353]. The two-dimensional na-ture and low connectivity of the honeycomb lattice make it a model system in condensed matter physics, which can host a number of electronic and magnetic properties that offer an ideal platform to test theoretical conjectures. Because the antiferromagnetic honeycomb lattice is bi-partite, it can support long-range magnetic order. How-ever, recent studies of the spin-orbit-coupled Kitaev hon-eycomb lattice have revealed the presence of exotic Majo-rana fermions without any conventional spatial magnetic ordering. The Majorana fermions are significant both for advancing our understanding of fundamental quantum matter and for realizing fault-tolerant quantum compu-tation [30, 108, 354–356]. A significant change in phys-ical properties occurs when moving from 3 d to 4 d and 5d transition-metal compounds. Compared to 3 d transi-tion metals, the heavier transition metals have spatially extended orbits which get hybridized with the ligand p

orbitals. This in turn broadens the electronic bandwidth in 4 d and 5 d transition-metal compounds [357, 358]. The electronic correlations, spin–orbit coupling, and crystal field effects all play important roles in driving novel ground states in these materials [354, 359, 360]. Due to the extended d orbital, the physical properties are highly susceptible to their surroundings. Because the competing energy scales are comparable in magnitude, even small changes in these energy parameters can significantly al-ter the magnetic ground state (Fig. 13). In the 3 d-transition metal oxides, the Coulombic in-teraction is strong enough that the energy states are well localized. In an octahedral environment, for ex-ample, the crystal field splits the triply degenerate t2g

level from the doubly degenerate eg levels. This energy level splitting is roughly around 0.1-1 eV, and the spin-orbit coupling is about two orders of magnitude lower than this [360]. So in 3 d-oxides, the orbital effects are quenched, and the dynamic behavior is mostly governed by spin-only Hamiltonian. However, with an increase in atomic number Z in the periodic table, the orbital contri-bution becomes prominent. In 4 d and 5 d transition-metal oxides, the ground state manifests from a subtle com-petition among three principal interactions: crystal-field splitting, spin–orbit coupling (SOC), and electron cor-relations (Coulomb repulsion U , Hund’s coupling). The crystal field imposed by an octahedral ligand splits the 

d-orbitals into a lower-energy t2g manifold and higher-energy eg states. Because 5 d orbitals are more spatially extended, the bandwidths are large, and in many Ir-based compounds the nominal electron count leaves the 

t2g manifold partially filled (e.g. t52g )(Fig. 13). However, when electron–electron interactions become appreciable, the on-site Coulomb repulsion U suppresses charge fluc-tuations and favors localization, steering the system to-ward a Mott-insulating regime (as seen in many 3 d ox-ides). In 5 d systems, this localization tendency is miti-gated by the generally larger bandwidth, yet even a mod-erate U can act on narrowed orbital subbands. When SOC becomes prominent, it changes the t2g manifold: the effective coupling of orbital and spin angular mo-menta splits the t2g energy level which set into a lower-energy Jeff = 3 /2 quartet and a higher-energy Jeff = 1 /2

doublet. In a t52g system, the Jeff = 3 /2 states are fully filled, leaving the half-filled Jeff = 1 /2 band susceptible to gap opening by correlation effects. This narrowing of the Jeff = 1 /2 band makes it easier for even moderate Coulomb repulsion to stabilize an insulating state—this is the concept of a “relativistic Mott insulator,” famously demonstrated in Sr 2IrO 4.The understanding of rigorous mathematical platform 36 (f) 

# (a)  (b) 

# (c)  (d) 

# (e) 

FIG. 13. Novel quantum states in frustrated 4d and 5d magnets. Illustration of the energy level structure for a t 52g

band under varying interactions: (a) in the absence of both SOC and Coulomb repulsion U, where the system remains in a simple crystal-field-split state; (b) in the presence of a significantly large U but without SOC, leading to enhanced electron localization; (c) with SOC included but neglecting U, resulting in spin-orbital entangled states; and (d) incorpo-rating both SOC and U, where their competition dictates the final electronic structure. Optical transitions, denoted as A and B, are indicated by arrows. (e) Energy level modifications induced by the interplay of crystal field effects and SOC. (f) A qualitative phase diagram mapping the impact of electron correlation strength (U/t) and SOC strength ( λ/t), illustrat-ing emergent electronic and magnetic phases in strongly cor-related frustrated quantum materials. Source:(a-e) adapted from [361] with permission, (f) adapted from [362] with per-mission. 

for spin-orbit coupled QSL. The Kitaev model is an ex-actly solvable Kitaev Hamiltonian, which is defined on a two-dimensional honeycomb lattice with spin- 12 mo-ments located at each site. The Hamiltonian is ex-pressed as: H = −Kx

P 

> ⟨i,j ⟩x

Sxi Sxj − Ky

P 

> ⟨i,j ⟩y

Syi Syj −(a)  (b)    

> 5
> 6
> SzSz4
> 1
> 2
> 3
> W1-6
> 4d5/5 d5
> eg
> t2g
> CEF
> SOC
> Jeff = 1/2
> Jeff = 3/2

FIG. 14. Exotic states in Frustrated Kitaev quan-tum magnet. (a) A schematic representation of a frustrated Kitaev magnet decorated on a honeycomb lattice with bond-dependent anisotropic exchange interactions (b) The com-bined effect of crystal electric field (CEF) and spin-orbit cou-pling in the 4d5 and 5d5 based quantum magnets realises a low energy Jeff = 1 /2 state potential to host Kitaev physics. 

Kz

P 

> ⟨i,j ⟩z

Szi Szj , where Kx, Ky , and Kz are the exchange couplings along the x-, y-, and z-bonds, respectively, and 

Sγi represents the spin operator at site i along the γ-axis. The bond-dependent nature of these interactions leads to a highly anisotropic Ising-type exchange that induces ex-change frustration, preventing the system from ordering magnetically and stabilizes a QSL state in the absence of an external magnetic field. This solvability is achieved by mapping the spin operators onto Majorana fermions, a process that introduces a set of conserved quantities associated with each plaquette (hexagon) of the lattice. These conserved quantities, known as flux operators, are defined as: Wp = Q 

> ⟨i,j ⟩∈ p

σγi σγj , where the product runs over the six bonds of a hexagon p, and σγi denotes the Pauli matrix corresponding to the spin at site i along the γ-direction (Fig. 14). The eigenvalues of Wp are 

±1, corresponding to different flux configurations that are invariant under the dynamics governed by the Kitaev Hamiltonian. The entire system can thus be described in terms of these fluxes and the itinerant Majorana fermions that hop between lattice sites. When an external magnetic field h = ( hx, h y , h z ) is applied, the Kitaev model becomes non-integrable, and the first-order perturbation effectively renormalizes the Kitaev couplings [363]: 

H(1)  

> eff

= − X

> γ

(Kγ + δK γ ) X

> ⟨ij ⟩γ

Sγi Sγj , with δK γ ∝ hγ .

(17) However, the topological transformation arises only at third order, where a chiral term of the form 

H(3)  

> eff

= −κ X

> ⟨⟨⟨ i,j,k ⟩⟩⟩

Sαi Sβj Sγk , κ ∝ hxhy hz

∆2 , (18) emerges. Here α, β, γ cycle over x, y, z, and ∆ is the flux gap. Kitaev honeycomb magnets are characterized by spin-orbit-driven interactions that are highly anisotropic and 37 bond-dependent, specifically between Jeff = 1 /2 degrees of freedom. The Kitaev model predicts the emergence of a QSL state as a result of bond frustration. Inherently, it gives rise to deconfined fractional excitations which are known as Majorana fermions [108, 363]. One of the most intriguing features of the Kitaev QSL is its ability to host non-Abelian anyons. This remarkable property broadens our understanding of unconventional quantum matter and opens promising avenues for topological quantum computation, where non-Abelian anyons serve as a natural basis for fault-tolerant qubits. Recent studies on some Kitaev magnets have shown glassy behavior at low temperatures. For example, the most celebrated Kitaev material, α-RuCl 3, has revealed glass-like behavior under the application of an intermediate magnetic field, evidenced by the non-linear susceptibility measurements [364]. Zero-temperature density-matrix renormalization group calculations in the intermediate field regime indicate that the emergence of glassy dynamics originates from the slowing down of Z2

fluxes in proximity to the U (1) spin-liquid phase [64]. In integrable systems, the large number of conserved quantities constrains the system’s dynamics, preventing the initial state from sampling the full Hilbert space and thereby giving rise to weak ergodicity breaking in Kitaev materials [365]. In the honeycomb Kitaev model, these conserved quantities correspond to flux operators defined around each hexagonal plaquette. Each flux operator is represented as a product of six spin components, written as W1-6 = 2 6Sz 

> 1

Sx 

> 2

Sy 

> 3

Sz 

> 4

Sx 

> 5

Sy 

> 6

(see Fig. 14(b)) [366]. This constrained dynamics is not unique to two-dimensional systems. Recent investigations of one-dimensional spin-1 Kitaev chains have revealed that the Hilbert space becomes fragmented into unequal, disconnected subspaces, further illustrating how local conservation laws can profoundly restrict ergodicity [367]. In the real materials, the Heisenberg interaction dominates over the Kitaev exchange. A recent study predict that a honeycomb isotropic Heisenberg magnet can harbour Kitaev spin liquid as a metastable state [29]. The slow decay and nontrivial dynamics of these metastable phases may naturally produce glassy behavior. Recent investigations in frustrated Kitaev spin glass magnets have revealed intriguing low-temperature spin freezing behavior [180, 291–293]. This behavior highlights characteristic features reminiscent of the hydrodynamic modes with gapless excitations, as pro-posed for other frustrated spin glass materials [56]. In these Kitaev magnets, specific heat measurements at low temperatures have demonstrated the presence of a linearly dispersing mode. The magnetic specific heat follows a T 2 dependence below the freezing temperature (see Fig. 9(c)). In the Jeff = 1/2 Kitaev spin glass Li 2RhO 3, the specific heat remains field-independent up to an applied magnetic field of 9 T below the glass transition temperature Tg , demonstrating the robustness of the low-temperature state [180]. The NMR study of this material is discussed exclusively in the NMR probe section of this review, where it provides clear evidence for the existence of topological spin freezing. A recently reported Kitaev material Ag 3LiIr 1.4Ru 0.6O6

with θCW ∼ − 160 K shows long-range magnetic order around 20 K with a possible quantum spin-liquid-like phase below 10 K [368]. The ZFC–FC bifurcation in magnetic susceptibility, together with the absence of a sharp λ-type anomaly in the specific heat, indicates the presence of frozen magnetism rather than a true long-range ordered state. The T 2-power-law behavior and field-independent magnetic specific heat up to an applied magnetic field of 7 T mimic the behavior of an unconventional spin glass, as observed in Li 2RhO 3.Furthermore, the μSR and 7Li NMR results support the freezing behavior. The μSR measurements show a par-tial loss of asymmetry and a temperature-independent relaxation rate below 10 K. This implies the coexistence of static and dynamic components with persistent low-energy spin dynamics. Similarly, the incomplete wipeout of the 7Li NMR intensity and the power-law dependence of 1/T 1 indicate the dynamics of novel low-energy excitations in the frozen spin background. whereas, the parent compounds Ag 3LiIr 2O6 and Ag 3LiRu 2O6

show different magnetic behaviors. The ground state of 

Jeff = 1 /2 Ag 3LiIr 2O6 is a long-range antiferromagnetic state which is evident from the clear oscillating nature of the asymmetry function in μSR [369, 370]. For the 

S = 1 Ag 3LiRu 2O6, the low temperature behavior is reported to be a spin glass below 5 K [371], but the spectroscopic study along with theoretical calculations, predicts the ground state as a spin-orbit entangled singlet state with Jeff = 0 [372]. So the anomalous spin freezing nature of Ag 3LiIr 1.4Ru 0.6O6 could be due to the bond randomness caused by the presence of disorder between Ir 4+ (Jeff = 1 /2) and Ru 4+ (S = 1 )ions on a honeycomb lattice. The specific data of some of the promising Kitaev topological spin glass materials are presented in Fig. 9(c), showing the quadratic temperature dependence, which is adapted from the ref. [180, 373–375] In quantum magnets with dominant ferromagnetic interactions, the low-temperature spin dynamics can also have clear fingerprints in thermodynamic quantities. In particular, an undamped linear spin-wave mode in three dimensions gives rise to a characteristic T 3

contribution to the magnetic specific heat at tempera-tures below a crossover or freezing scale Tg [220]. Such behavior has been reported in the hyperhoneycomb (three-dimensional analog of Kitaev honeycomb magnet) iridates β-ZnIrO 3 and β-MgIrO 3, where nominal Ir 4+ 

ions carry effective pseudospin-1/2 (Jeff = 1 /2) moments and where Curie–Weiss fits suggest dominant ferro-magnetic coupling with θCW of order 40–60 K in these systems [294, 295, 376]. In these lattices, a nontrivial 

Z2 flux operator can be defined around a ten-site loop (a conserved quantity in the pure Kitaev limit), which plays a key role in mediating low-energy excitations 38 and constraining fluctuations [377]. Experimentally, both β-ZnIrO 3 and β-MgIrO 3 show weak anomalies in bulk thermodynamic measurements around Tg ∼ 12 K 

and 22 K , respectively—interpreted as spin-freezing or crossover phenomena [294, 295]. Below those tempera-tures, the magnetic specific heat is well described by a leading Cmag ∝ T 3 term, consistent with the presence of an undamped, linearly dispersing magnon branch. This contrasts with conventional ferromagnets, where long-range order often leads to quadratic dispersion (and hence Cmag ∝ T 3/2 in 3D). The persistence of the T 3 dependence even under magnetic fields (up to 5 T in β-ZnIrO 3) suggests a robustness of the linear magnon modes. The robustness is similar to that of its two-dimensional Kitaev spin glasses, as discussed above. Moreover, since these systems lie close to competing quantum phases, perturbations such as magnetic field, pressure, or strain may push them across crossovers or transitions, making the interplay between spin waves, freezing phenomena, and frustration a rich arena for exploring emergent quantum states. 

E. Pyrochlore lattice 

The pyrochlore lattice is a three-dimensional network of corner-sharing tetrahedra, representing one of the most interesting geometrically frustrated structures in con-densed matter. In the pyrochlore lattice, each magnetic ion (or vortex) is connected to six nearest neighbors (Fig. 15(a)), which leads to a high degree of magnetic frustration. The general formula for the pyrochlore ox-ides is A 2B2O7, where the A site is typically occupied by rare-earth or large ions and the B site hosts transi-tion metal ions [378–380]. The intricate geometry and the competing degrees of freedom in the pyrochlore lat-tice give rise to a highly degenerate ground state. The macroscopic degeneracy is the key to the variety of emer-gent phenomena observed in pyrochlore lattices, such as spin liquid [380–382], spin ice associated with magnetic monopole excitations [113, 383, 384], spin glass [192, 385] and anomalous Hall effect [386]. Early investigation of spin ice materials such as Dy 2Ti 2O7 [384, 387] and Ho 2Ti 2O7 [388, 389], revealed the intriguing possibility of hosting magnetic monopoles. This has drawn consid-erable attention as the magnetic monopole emerges as a collective quasiparticle excitation, reflecting the hypo-thetical elementary magnetic charges that high-energy physicists had long sought but never observed in real system [390, 391]. In the rare-earth pyrochlore spin ice materials, the magnetic moments are constrained along the local Ising axes [392, 393]. The dynamics of these Ising spins are mostly governed by the nearest-neighbor exchange strength and the long-range dipolar interac-tions [113]. In spin ice materials, the magnetic moments (Ising spins) on the pyrochlore lattice interact ferromag-netically but are constrained by strong local anisotropy to 0 T   

> 0.5 T
> 1 T
> 2 T
> 4 T
> 1.0
> 2-in , 2 -out configuration
> 2-near , 2 -far ice rule

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d)          

> 0.0
> 2.0
> 3.0
> 4.0
> 10 20 30 30
> 1.0
> 0. 6
> 0. 9
> 1.2
> 1.5
> 1.8
> 36912 15 18 21
> 0
> 𝜒 ′ ( e.m.u.  G-1 mol -1)𝜒 ′ ( e.m.u.  G-1 per  mol  Dy )
> Temperature (K)
> Temperature (K)
> Dy 2-xYxTi 2O7

FIG. 15. Emblematic frustrated pyrochlore lattice. (a) A schematic representation of a pyrochlore lattice structure (b) Diagram depicting the correspondence between spin ice (upper panel) and water ice (lower panel). In the spin ice structure, a spin directed outward (inward) represents a hy-drogen atom displaced away from (toward) the central oxygen atom of the tetrahedron (c) Real part of the a.c. susceptibil-ity of Dy 2Ti 2O7 as a function of temperature in various dc fields at 100 Hz. The magnetic field increases the freezing temperature, contrary to the behavior in typical spin glasses (d) Real part of the a.c. susceptibility for Dy 2−xYxTi 2O7

(0 ⩽ x ⩽ 0.4) as a function of temperature at 500 Hz, mea-sured without a d.c. field. Substituting magnetic Dy 3+ 

with non-magnetic Y 3+ ions weakens the freezing transition, highlighting the role of spin-spin interactions in the process. Source:(b)adapted from [398] with permission from AR, (c,d) adapted from [392] with permission from NPG. 

align along the 〈111 〉 axes connecting the centers of neigh-boring tetrahedra. As a result, the ground state config-urations obey the so-called “ice rule” [384], analogous to the proton disorder in water ice(Fig. 15(b)) [394]. Here, each tetrahedral vertex has two spins pointing inward and two pointing outward ( “2-in, 2-out” configuration). This local constraint results in a macroscopically degen-erate ground state and extensive residual entropy [395]. In spin ice, flipping a single spin breaks the local “two-in, two-out” ice rule, effectively creating a pair of defects that behave like magnetic charges of opposite sign. This quasiparticle is referred to as a magnetic monopole, which moves through the lattice as neighboring spins flip, form-ing a current of magnetic charge. Here we can pause for a moment and think about an in-depth question [396, 397]: are the particles we observe in nature truly elementary, or 39 could they emerge from the collective behavior of many interacting degrees of freedom ? However, the experimental study has shown that the potential spin ice candidate Dy 2Ti 2O7 shows spin glass behavior. But the glassy nature of this pyrochlore fun-damentally differs from that of canonical spin glass. The slowing down of spin dynamics could be due to the presence of topological defects which are magnetic monopoles. The freezing behavior reflects an entropic balance: as the temperature is lowered, the creation and motion of monopoles are increasingly hindered, result-ing in a dynamical slowdown and eventual arrest of the spin system [69, 392, 399]. The glassy nature of spin ice exhibits a relatively narrow distribution of relaxation times, which contrasts with the broad distribution range found in canonical spin glasses [392]. A distinct trend of glassy behavior is observed with the application of a magnetic field. With an increase in magnetic field, the real part of the ac susceptibility χ′ marks a sup-pression below the freezing temperature Tg (Fig. 15(c)). This anomaly is a direct consequence of the coopera-tive dynamics within the ice-rule-constrained manifold. When an external magnetic field is applied, it polarizes the background spin configuration, increasing the energy barrier for monopole motion and thereby stabilizing the frozen state. Conversely, doping Dy 2Ti 2O7 with just 20% of non-magnetic Y 3+ ions at Dy 3+ suppresses glassiness, as reflected by an enhancement of χ′ (Fig. 15(d)). This sensitivity arises because the energy scales governing in-teractions in 4 f -based spin ices are intrinsically small due to the weak exchange on the order of 1–2 K. These 4 f

electrons are subject to large crystal electric field split-tings ( ∼300 K), which isolate the Ising doublets but re-duce the overall energy landscape for collective behav-ior. As a result, even weak dilution disrupts the del-icate network of frustrated tetrahedra, diminishing the topological constraints and enabling faster spin dynam-ics. From a field-theoretical standpoint, the low-energy excitations in spin ice are governed by emergent U(1) gauge fields, and the excitations, mapped onto Goldstone modes in the presence of broken symmetry, are highly susceptible to perturbations. In the regime of weak ex-change disorder, characterized by a disorder strength ∆

(0 < ∆ ≪ J), a modified hydrodynamic theory predicts that these emergent gauge fields interact with the disor-dered spin background, leading to a renormalized veloc-ity c ∼ a∆ for the collective excitations, where a is the spin lattice spacing [61]. This disorder-induced reduction in excitation velocity increases the density of low-energy states, thereby enhancing the magnetic specific heat Cm

as the system approaches the glassy state. Thus, slow spin dynamics, arising not from conventional random dis-order but from the constrained topological manifold and emergent gauge structure, define a fundamentally differ-ent route to spin freezing in spin ices like Dy 2Ti 2O7.In contrast to 4 f -based pyrochlores, where the glassy state arises from the emergence of exotic quasi-particle excitations and a corresponding gauge field, the glassy behavior observed in 3 d and 4 d transition metal py-rochlores, such as Y 2Mo 2O7[75, 191], NaCaNi 2F7[302, 400], and Lu 2Mo 2O7 [296], is instead primarily governed by a combination of strong geometric frustration and an-tiferromagnetic exchange randomness, which conspire to produce a manifold of nearly degenerate states and low-energy collective fluctuations. Table III presents some of the transition metal based frustrated spin glasses and the associated thermodynamic parameters. Despite the three-dimensional nature of the pyrochlore lattice, the specific heat in this class of spin glasses shows T 2 power-law behavior, which is close to that observed in 2D an-tiferromagnetic spin waves. The apparent reduction in dimensionality, from the expected three-dimensional to an effective two-dimensional spin-wave modes, may orig-inate from strong spin–orbit coupling [75, 401], which can anisotropically constrain magnetic interactions and effectively lower their dimensionality. The Mo 4+ based 

S = 1 frustrated spin glass Y 2Mo 2O7 has effective θCW 

=−200 K with Tg = 22 K [191]. However, the sister com-pound Lu 2Mo 2O7, which also shows spin-glass behavior, has an effective θCW of −160 K with Tg = 16 K [402]. Despite the substitution of Y 3+ with Lu 3+ , the nature of spin freezing qualitatively remains the same. In dif-fuse magnetic neutron diffraction for both Y 2Mo 2O7 and Lu 2Mo 2O7, broad elastic magnetic peaks are observed at 

Q ≈ 0.4 Å−1 [403] and 0.6 Å−1 [296], respectively. These differences in Q values suggest that Y 2Mo 2O7 has longer-range magnetic correlations compared to Lu 2Mo 2O7. Ni-triding the Lu 2Mo 2O7 spin glass oxide, resulting in Mo 5+ 

S = 1 /2 Lu 2Mo 2O5N2 magnet. The μSR measurements confirm the lack of long-range magnetic ordering or spin freezing down to 300 mK in Lu 2Mo 2O5N2 [404]. This can be interpreted as a crossover from a spin glass to a spin liquid state, where the quantum fluctuations are ampli-fied due to the spin-1/2 magnetic moment. The linear-T

dependence of specific heat and the absence of a broad magnetic scattering peak signal the emergence of a spinon Fermi surface [296]. Despite the introduction of bond randomness due to oxynitridation, the glassy state is completely destabilized in Lu 2Mo 2O5N2, suggesting the presence of a dynamic ground state resulting from the in-terplay between quantum fluctuations and exchange ran-domness. In the Ru-based Y 2Ru 2O7, the thermodynamic probes reveal a distinct form of spin freezing. It shows ZFC-FC bifurcation in magnetization without any trace of hysteresis [405] and the magnetic specific heat shows a sharp anomaly at Tg = 76 K [297]. This indicates that the phase transition is of second order, and the neutron diffraction data show a nearly long-range magnetic or-der with an estimated ruthenium magnetic moment of approximately 1.36 μB [297]. A similar glassy behavior is observed in Y 2Ir 2O7 [300, 301], indicative of a con-ventional spin-freezing transition that occurs despite the strong magnetic frustration inherent to its pyrochlore ge-ometry. The pyrochlore fluoride CsNiCrF 6 provides a com-pelling example of a frustrated magnet where correlated 40 (a)  (b) 

(c)  (d)            

> CP/T(mJ /mole.K 2)
> (0,0, l)( r,l,u )
> m(emu/Oe/g )
> T(K)
> 1600
> 1400
> 1200
> 1000
> 800
> 600
> 400
> 200
> 0
> T(K)
> 0510 15
> 4
> 2
> 0
> -4
> -2
> -4-2024
> 0.5 1. 01.5 2.5 2.0 3.0
> 1.90 ×10 -4
> 1.85 ×10 -4
> 1.80 ×10 -4
> 1.75 ×10 -4
> (h,h,0 )( r,l,u )

FIG. 16. Frustration-driven coexistence of liquid-like correlations and spin freezing in the pyrochlore CsNiCrF 6.(a) Schematic of the pyrochlore lattice formed by a mixed occupancy of Ni 2+ and Cr 3+ ions on a network of corner-sharing tetrahedra, highlighting the geometrical frus-tration and underlying charge-ice constraints. (b) DC mag-netic susceptibility measured at 100 Oe showing ZFC-FC bi-furcation at Tg = 2 .3 K. (c) Specific heat measured under various magnetic fields (applied along the (1,1,1) direction), exhibiting a broad maximum around Tg consistent with the absence of sharp long-range ordering and the presence of fluctuating, correlated degrees of freedom.(d) Experimental magnetic diffuse neutron scattering measured at 1.5 K, show-ing characteristic pinch-point features in the structure factor 

S(Q). (a) and (d) are adapted from ref. [406], (b) and (c) are adapted from ref. [305]. 

disorder, emergent gauge structure, and unconventional freezing coexist [305, 406]. Here, Ni 2+ and Cr 3+ cations form a pyrochlore lattice and the cation distribution is not random; instead, it follows an Anderson-type con-straint where each tetrahedron contains two Ni 2+ and two Cr 3+ ions, as shown in Fig. 16(a). This “charge-ice” rule puts a constraint on the local conservation law that is equivalent to divergence-free condition on an emergent flux field, ∇ · B = 0 . The constraint places CsNiCrF 6 in the class of Coulomb phases, and the dynamical behav-ior of the system is not governed by the conventional symmetry-breaking state, but rather by an emergent gauge structure. The observed pinch points in the dif-fuse neutron scattering structure factor S(Q) (Fig. 16(d)) further confirm the presence of the Coulomb phase [406]. The significant consequence of the "charge-ice” constraint is that the cation configuration transforms into a fully packed loop model on the diamond lattice, with each loop consisting of ions of the same species, i.e., either the loop of Ni 2+ or Cr 3+ ions. A power-law distribution of loop lengths provides a topological backbone for both structural and magnetic correlations. INS carried out at low energy ( ℏω < 2 meV) yields a structure factor with broadened pinch-point features, indicating that the sys-tem remains in the Coulomb phase. Although there is no long-range magnetic order at low temperatures, bulk thermodynamic measurements reveal a freezing transi-tion at Tf ≈ 2.3 K [305]. The transition is marked by the ZFC-FC splitting observed in the measurement of DC susceptibility, as shown in Fig. 16(b). The specific heat data, as illustrated in Fig. 16(c), exhibits broad maxima below 10 K, with the maximum obtained at Tg . It is also observed that the field evolution of Tg follows an opposite trend to that of the canonical spin glass. The observed unconventional spin freezing may be due to a fluctuation-driven instability toward a spin-nematic state induced by weak interloop couplings [305]. In proximity to this in-stability, the spin can have a pronounced slowing down, as the relaxation processes require the coordinated rear-rangements of spin loop structures rather than any local spin flip transition. This provides a natural mechanism for slowing spin dynamics in CsNiCrF 6. In a broader perspective, CsNiCrF 6 exemplifies a fundamentally dif-ferent route to spin freezing where the phase space is fragmented by topological constraints due to correlated disorder between Ni 2+ and Cr 3+ moments than random disorder. In the 3d−fluoride based pyrochlore NaCaNi 2F7, neu-tron scattering and thermodynamic measurements reveal an unusual hierarchy of magnetic regimes [407]. A QSL-like dynamic state exists around the dominant exchange scale, and ultimately, a frozen state is reached below 3.6 K. Remarkably, nearly 90% of the low-temperature spectral weight appears in the inelastic scattering, far exceeding semiclassical expectations for an S = 1 sys-tem and pointing to the persistence of strong quantum fluctuations. Below the Tg , the specific heat follows a power-law behavior as Cm ∝ T 2.2. The sub-quadratic nature of Cm indicates the presence of linearly dispers-ing bosonic excitations with an effective two-dimensional constraint despite the underlying cubic geometry. The reduction in dimensionality is attributed to frustration-induced soft nodal lines [408] that restrict the low-energy spin fluctuations akin to topological constraints in phase space [409, 410]. Although the system eventually freezes at low temperature, it nonetheless reflects the existence of quantum fluctuations within a highly entangled mani-fold. Thus, NaCaNi 2F7 pyrochlore illustrates how glassi-ness can emerge as the terminal fate of a quantum liquid, resulting from a combined effect of geometric frustration and topology. Thus, pyrochlore-based frustrated magnets provide a paradigmatic model for realizing exotic physical phenom-ena. The interplay between competing interactions, dis-order, and emergent electromagnetic responses may fa-cilitate the establishment of a theoretical framework and a deeper understanding of many-body quantum phenom-ena, such as spin liquids, topological spin freezing, and spin ice, in a broad class of frustrated 3D magnets. 41  

> F. Other promising frustrated spin-lattices

An Archimedean lattice is in general, a uniform tiling two-dimensional arrangement of regular polygons where all vertices share the same topologically identical and they frequently form the foundational magnetic struc-tures of insulating, quasi-2D quantum magnetic materials [411–413]. The Archimedean lattice is generic to most of the highly frustrated lattices, including kagome, honey-comb, and triangular ( Fig. 17(a)), which are potentially important for demonstrating novel electronic, magnetic, and superconducting states of fundamental appeal and technological relevance. Insights into the structure- prop-erty relationships, non-trivial electronic bands, ground state degeneracies, and topological phases in these novel lattices are crucial for designing artificial lattice archi-tectures, including cold atoms and artificial spin ice, where the tunability of structure and associated proper-ties is seamless compared to their natural counterparts. The name Archimedean lattice comes from the discov-erer Archimedes. In the Pappus(fl. AD 300-350) collec-tion, he described that Archimedes had discovered thir-teen “solids" with faces composed of regular polygons of more than one type [414]. Later Kepler showed that there exist only 11 distinct Archimedean lattices [415]. These 11 Archimedean lattice patterns are significant not only in mathematics [416, 417] but also in materials science, as many of these lattices correspond to natural material systems. Archimedean lattices are visually captivating and can be found in various forms of art and architec-ture. These uniform patterns are appearing in everything from household ceramic tile and bowl designs and bas-ket weaves (with “kagomé" referring to a weave pattern in Japanese) to the atomic structures of materials[413]. The Archimedean lattice has different notations that might be labeled by the sequence of polygons that makes a com-plete circuit surround each vertex in every direction, be-cause all vertices share the same topological environment, which can be expressed in the mathematical notation for an Archimedean lattice, ∆ = Q 

> i

P ai 

> i

[412]. Where the mathematical notation P ai 

> i

refers that the regular poly-gon Pi occurs continuously ai times, sometime it can oc-cur noncontinuously. Noncontiguously, since the starting point is irrelevant, the symbol remains unchanged under cyclic permutations. For future reference, when a poly-gon Pi appears multiple times in a noncontinuous way within the product, we will represent ai as the sum of all 

ai values corresponding to each occurrence of Pi in the product. These eleven Archimedean latices in the form of sequences are, 

{∆} = {(3 6); (4 4); (6 3); (3 4.6); (3 3.42); (3 2.4.3.4); (3 .4.6.4); (3 .6.3.6); (3 .12 2); (4 .6.12); (4 .82)} (19) Among these lattices, three are homopolygonal, or monohedral, meaning they consist of only one type of regular polygon: 

(3 6:Triangular), (4 4:square), (6 3:Honeycomb).The re-maining eight lattices are hetero-polygonal (( 34.6:maple leaf); (3 3.42:trellis);( 32.4.3.4:SrCuBO);(3.4.6.4:bounce); (3.6.3.6:kagome); (3 .12 2 :star);(4.6.12:SHD); (4 .82:CaVO), meaning they involve tilings with more than one type of regular polygon [412]. Each edge of the Archimedean lattices narrates an ex-change interaction (or bond) J, which interacts between two spins sitting at the vertices. These bonds ideally as-sume a uniform strength spread over the lattices. How-ever, in real materials the exchange interaction between two spins often varies in magnitude due to lattice distor-tions, anisotropies, chemical substitutions, or pressure-induced changes to the lattices. The variation of bond strength can effect the magnetic ground state and as-sociated low-energy excitations of the system. Thus, it has become both an experimental and a theoretical in-terest to explore how the underlying lattice and hence the ground state change upon eliminating and joining such a bond within the broader Archimedean framework. A particularly interesting scenario ariese when a specific lattice among 11 Archimedean lattices can be continu-ously transformed into another one by tuning some spe-cific bonds toward zero strength ( J→0). For instance, the square lattices can be obtained from the triangular lattice by selectively removing the diagonal term, reducing the connectivity in the triangular lattice. In the same way, more complex transformations are possible. The honey-comb lattice can be derived from the triangular lattice, while the other lattices such as the maple-leaf, trel- lis (bounce), and star lattices can be obtained by remov-ing or modifying particular bond [418]. A schematic di-agram of relationships among the 11 Archimedean lat-tices is shown in Fig. 17(b), where the arrows illustrate the transformation one lattice into another [418]. The family of Archimedean lattices provide considered a rich platform for exploring quantum many-body phenomena, where quantum fluctuations dominate over classical or-dering. In general, 2D quantum magnets develop mag-netic ordering with nearest-neighbor isotropic Heisenberg interactions at finite temperatures, unless suppressed by frustration or competing interactions. In order to inves-tigate the exotic magnetic behavior of the 11 distinct 2D Archimedean lattices, it is necessary to shed insight into the combined effect of lattice topology, spin coordination number ( z), quantum fluctuations, the interplay between nearest-neighbor and next-nearest-neighbor interactions, and exchange interactions [419]. Building on this frame-work, Farnell et al. provide a comprehensive analysis of the Archimedean lattices, summarizing in Fig.17 (c) [420] how these competing factors influence the emergence of different magnetic phases. Semiclassical magnetic long-range ordered states : which may be collinear or non-collinear—are observed in bipartite lattices such as the square, honeycomb, CaVO, and SHD lattices. Magnet-ically disordered states: often described as cooperative quantum paramagnets or spin liquids, emerge in highly frustrated lattices such as the triangular, kagome, and star lattices. Intermediate or amorphous-like phases: re-ferred to as amorphous lattices, are found in more com-42 plex geometries like the trellis, bounce, and maple-leaf lattices, where competing interactions neither lead to conventional order nor a fully disordered state. However, recent experimental studies have highlighted exceptions and refinements to this classification. For in-stance, the square-lattice compound Sr 2CuTe 0.5W0.5O6,though bipartite and expected to support long-range or-der, exhibits a highly frustrated spin-glass state instead [423]. In this material, Cu 2+ (S = 1 /2) spins constitute a square lattice, but the random distribution of Te and W ions leads to disorder-induced frustration. In addition to long-range order, the square lattices can exibit disorder type ground states like spin glass[349, 420]. Similarly, in honeycomb-lattice systems such as those hosting Kitaev interactions, magnetic behavior deviates from the phase diagram due to the bond-dependent anisotropic Ising-like couplings. The Kitaev model, which was originally introduced as a solvable quantum spin liquid model, pre-dicts ground states with fractionalized excitations and nontrivial topological order. In real materials such as 

α−RuCl 3 doped with 1 % Cr or Na 2IrO 3 doped with Ti and Ru show glassy behavior, accompanied by a low-temperature specific heat scaling as C ∝ T 2, indicative of linear dispersive modes, rather than classical magnetic order [56, 373, 375]. These findings suggest that the sim-ple classification into ordered, disordered, or intermediate phases must be expanded to include the effects of bond disorder, doping, and anisotropies in real materials, all of which can lead to unexpected behaviors like spin glassi-ness or quantum paramagnetism in systems previously proposed to host long-range order. We analyze the simulated specific heat per lattice site for the star and kagome lattices as a function of temper-ature, shown in Fig. 17(d) [422]. By fitting the specific heat data as presented in ref.[422] using the quadratic equation C = aT n, we determine that n ≈ 2.17 for the kagome lattice and n ≈ 2.09 for the star lattice. The observed power-law behaviors in the specific heat is in-dicative of low-energy, linearly dispersing collective exci-tations, which naturally arise in highly frustrated mag-netic systems with an extensive manifold of nearly de-generate states. Such scaling is due to the presence of soft modes associated with fluctuating spin textures and residual correlations, even in the absence of conventional long-range magnetic order. Most Archimedean lattices contain triangular motifs hosting antiferromagnetic interaction, which inherently introduce geometric frustration with a highly degener-ate manifold that can lead to exotic states such as QSL or spin glass in this class of materials. In the preced-ing sections of this review, we have already explored spin freezing behavior in triangular and kagome lattice geome-tries. Spin freezing is a defining signature of frustrated magnetic systems, where the intricate lattice connectiv-ity enforces local constraints and defects that restrict spin dynamics, leading to an inability to establish QSL as well as conventional magnetic order even at extremely low temperatures. Another frustrated spin system is the hyperkagome Na 4Ir 3O8 with effective spin Jeff = 1 /2, showing ZFC-FC bifurcation around 6 K in spite of having a large dynamic region with Curie-Weiss temperature |θCW | ∼ 

650 K [425]. This is a derived spinel from spinel ox-ides AB 2O4 with B-site occupied by Ir and Na due to cation ordering and can be rewritten as (Na 1.5)1(Ir 3/4,Na 1/4)2O4. The appearance of the glassy phase in this low-spin system is enhanced by the incomplete occupancy of Na 1+ ion in the A-site resulting in random Ir 4+ spin ex-change interaction path. The specific heat shows a broad peak around temperature 30 K with no ordering down to 500 mK. The μSR results indicate the onset of spin freez-ing below 6 K, attributed to the behavior of bulk spins rather than a dilute impurity contribution [426]. The 

μSR results confirm the existence of quasistatic, short-range magnetic correlations localized within a single unit cell length [426]. The reduction of spin fluctuation below freezing temperature is further evident from the NMR spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T 1 [214]. In a spin-orbit coupled system, degeneracy can be lifted, leading to significant lattice distortion known as the Jahn-Teller effect. A recent study on the frustrated pyrochlore lattice A 2Mo 2O7 (A = Y, Dy, Ho, Tb) reports a glass transition at temperatures around 20 K without any quenched disorder [192]. NMR, X-ray absorption spectroscopy, and μSR results reveal Mo-Mo pair distor-tion in the Mo-pyrochlore network in a two-in, two-out manner [427]. The relative displacement of O 2− atoms results in a distribution of Mo-O-Mo angles, altering the exchange interactions and introducing interaction disor-der. This distribution of exchange interactions J among Mo-Mo pairs intrinsically contributes to the glassy nature by transforming a flat energy landscape into a rugged one. Given the critical role of spin-orbit coupling in driv-ing this glassy behavior, it can be designated as a spin-orbital glass. Remarkably, it exhibits a quadratic specific heat dependency Cm ∼ T 2, characteristic of 2D magnon excitation. This suggests that orbital degeneracy may reduce the dimensionality of magnetic interactions from three to two. A paradigmatic example of emergent complexity in geometrically frustrated magnets is found in gadolin-ium gallium garnet (Gd 3Ga 5O12 , or GGG), where spin freezing occurs in a site-ordered chemically clean lattice. The glass transition occurs around the temperature 0.14 K [310] which is well below the characteristic antiferro-magnetic interaction scale θCW ≈ − 2 K [428]. The sup-pression of conventional magnetic ordering is due to the high degree of magnetic frustration inherent to its hyper-kagome network of Gd 3+ ions. The complexity in GGG is evident from its magnetic diffuse scattering shown in Fig. 18(c). The development of short-range spin corre-lations beyond the next-nearest neighbor is evident from the anisotropic pattern of the diffused scattering [424]. Comparing it with the reverse Monte Carlo (RMC) re-finements confirms that the spin correlations originate from the coherent dynamics of finite spin textures. 43 (d) 

# ((b)  4,8 2 44

33,42

36

32,4,3,4 

3,6,3,6  63 34,6 

> 3,12 2

3,4,6,4 

> 4,6,12

# (a) 

# (c) 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8  

> 0.00
> 0.05
> 0.10
> 0.15
> 0.20
> 0.25 Kagome Star
> T2fitting
> C- per lattice site(arb.unit)

## T(K) 

> Frustration

Z

# (d) 

FIG. 17. Archimedean lattices are promising contenders for frustrated spin glass physics (a) All eleven Archimedean lattices, also known as uniform tilings, consist of regular polygons arranged such that each vertex has an identical configuration of surrounding polygons which are labeled by some sequential rules (b) The relationships (ar-rows) between all eleven Archimedean lattices, where one tiling transforms into another by selectively removing edges (bonds) and applying suitable distortions (c) A schematic representation of semiclassical magnetic order and quan-tum magnetic disorder in Archimedean lattices within a parameter space defined by frustration (defined by ref [419]) and coordination number z. Here the notation of Archimedean lattices is used as (3 6:TRIAN), (4 4:SQUARE), (6 3:HON), (( 34.6:MAPLE); (3 3.42:TRELLIS);( 32.4.3.4:SrCuBO);(3.4.6.4:BOUNCE);(3.6.3.6:KAGO); (3 .12 2 :STAR);(4.6.12:SHD); (4 .82:CaVO) (d) The specific heat per lattice site for the star( 3, 12 2) and Kagomé lattices as a function of temperature digitized the simulated data. Source: (a)adapted from [421] with permission from RSC, (c)adapted from [420] with permission from APS, (d)adapted from [422] with permission from World Scientific. 

The combined study of neutron scattering and RMC analyses revealed that the intermediate-temperature spin-liquid state contains a form of hidden long-range or-der which cannot be described within the dipolar frame-work. Instead of multipolar ordering consists of ten-spin loops, where the spin orientations conspiringly form into a higher-rank tensor configuration. These configurations are characterized by a vector-like “director” that behaves analogously to orientational order in nematic liquid crys-tals [424]. This “hidden multipole crystal” preserves the crystallographic symmetry but exhibits nontrivial spa-tial correlations of the loop directors, which identified in thermodynamic measurement were in the form of a broad anomaly in specific heat around 0.5 K together with a pronounced peak in the nonlinear magnetic susceptibil-ity(see Fig. 18(a)). It reinforces the interpretation that GGG undergoes a freezing transition not of conventional dipolar order, but of emergent loop degrees of freedom. The experimental observation of frequency dependence of the ac susceptibility, together with the absence of a sharp 44 Tg

# (a) 

# (b) 

# (c)            

> FIG. 18. Non-trivial phenomena in 3D garnet. (a) Tem-perature dependence of the nonlinear susceptibility χ3(T).The inset of the panel shows the frequency dependence of the imaginary part of the linear susceptibility. (b) The C/T
> versus Tin a 3D hyperkagome-like spin lattice Gd 3Ga 5O12
> shows a broad maximum below the glass transition. (c) Mag-netic diffuse scattering in the single crystals of Gd 3Ga 5O12
> in two reciprocal-space planes: the upper panel shows the
> (hk 0) plane and the lower panel shows the (hkk )plane. The left side presents the experimental neutron-scattering data, while the right side shows the corresponding reverse Monte Carlo refinement, with the white regions in the experimen-tal data indicating areas without coverage. Source: adapted from refs. [310, 424] with permission from APS and AAAS.

anomaly in the specific heat indicates unconventional freezing behavior (Fig. 18(b)). The inelastic neutron scattering reveals the multipolar organization associated with low-energy spin dynamics, which suggests that there are present gapless hydrodynamic modes [55]. The low-energy excitations of gapless hydrodynamic modes are governed not by long-range dipolar order, but by loop director fields, potentially a new class of modes rooted in multipolar freezing rather than conventional magnetic order. Unlike 3 d-based canonical spin glasses, GGG ex-emplifies intrinsic, frustration-driven glassiness arising in the limit of negligible quenched disorder. The observed behavior can be revised in the framework where frustration alone, coupled with anisotropy and multipolar degrees of freedom, stabilizes glassy states with both local liquid-like spin fluctuation and emergent global coherence. GGG has minimal disorder and pri-marily originates from subtle off-stoichiometry, yet this is sufficient to pin the collective degrees of freedom, akin to weak random-field effects in nematic liquid crystals, which pose challenges to the traditional spin-glass where randomness and disorder are essential. GGG, a rare example of a unique interplay of geometrical frustration, hidden order, and nontrivial thermodynamics, which emphasizes the necessity to transcend beyond simple dipolar or Ising paradigms toward embracing the rich, multipolar landscape of glassy quantum magnets. High spin trillium lattice KSrFe 2(PO 4)3, with S = 5/2,shows a frozen ground state [311]. Its low-temperature magnetic specific heat follows a non-trivial power law. The unconventional behavior of magnetic specific heat, 

Cm ∝ T 2.33 can be traced to a quantum treatment of thermal fluctuations, where the fluctuation stiffness 

κT (q) exhibits a non-analytic temperature dependence at low energies [408]. This generates soft nodal-line excitations that effectively reduce the dimensionality imposed by the lattice geometry [407, 408]. Another example of a trillium lattice with Fe 3+ moments is K2FeSn(PO 4)3, which exhibits an anomaly in magnetic susceptibility consistent with antiferromagnetic ordering near 2 K [429]. However, the specific heat follows a nearly field-independent sub-quadratic power-law dependence on temperature, without showing a clear 

λ-type anomaly, indicating the absence of conventional long-range magnetic order. Muon spin spectroscopy provides further support for this picture: the zero-field relaxation rate λZF shows a crossover at T ∗ ≈ 11 Kassociated with the slowing down of spin fluctuations, while at low temperatures the spectra are dominated by a Gaussian relaxation component that remains largely undecoupled even in longitudinal fields up to several tesla. This “undecouplable Gaussian" line shape is commonly regarded as indicative of a distribution of local fields arising from short-lived singlet correlations and persistent spin dynamics [193, 202]. The coexistence of quasistatic and dynamic local moments, along with field-independent specific heat, which indicates the formation of an unconventional frozen state. While ZFC–FC splitting in magnetic susceptibility has been linked to a weak ferromagnetic component below 2K [429], we suggest that these characteristics are more naturally interpreted as indicators of topological spin freezing, rather than conventional magnetic ordering.  

> V. Hierarchical Vs. Non-hierarchical Energy landscape

Understanding the complex physics of hierarchical and non-hierarchical energy landscapes in disordered mag-netic systems requires exploring the complex energy land-scape configurations. The disordered magnetic system (here spin glass and spin jam state) prevents a unique ground state due to competing interactions and ran-dom disorder, instead trapping it in a multitude of metastable configurations that are separated by varying energy barriers. In hierarchical energy landscapes, ob-served in the spin glass state, the energy states are deco-rated in a nested, ultrametric fashion and rugged funnel shape [118, 149, 150, 430]. The Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model provides a mathematical foundation to describe such a rugged energy landscape. Later, Parisi’s replica 45 symmetry breaking solution of the SK model elucidates an appropriate mathematical framework within the mean field theory, where the energy landscape is organized in a nested, tree-like hierarchy visualization as “valleys within valleys".Each valley represents one particular spin orien-tation, while deeper subvalleys produced small fluctua-tions of spin configuration. These tree-like hierarchical landscapes induce the spin configuration to move slowly towards the equilibrium state. As a result, memory and rejuvenation effects were observed in the canonical spin glass CuMn, AgMn system, which is typically probed through the thermoremanent magnetization (TRM) ex-perimentally. These slow spin dynamics and memory ef-fects can described through time-dependent spin correla-tion functions C(t, t w) = 1

> N

PNi=1 ⟨si(tw)si(tw +t)⟩, where 

tw is the waiting time before measurement. The violation of time-translation invariance in C(t, t w) clearly encodes aging, where the spin correlations decay more slowly as 

tw increases, implying the system progressively confines to deeper minima of the energy landscape [431]. In contrast, in non-hierarchical energy landscapes, ob-served in spin jam state, the energy landscape exhibits decorated and shallow minima but a rough or corru-gated bottom (Fig. 1 (e)). The energy shape in spin jam state breaks an exactly flat landscape due to clas-sical and quantum fluctuation, and a constrained driven mechanism arises from intrinsic spin texture. The non-hierarchical energy landscapes can be elaborated through a feature of broad basins, within which numerous mi-crostates with local minima are separated by energy bar-riers and exhibit no clear hierarchical organization [73– 76]. A qualitative and quantitative distinction between these two energy landscapes is described below in the context of aging and memory effects. Memory effects can be observed in the response func-tion χ(t, t w) = δ⟨si(t+tw )⟩  

> δh (tw)

, which depends on the history of the applied field h(tw). The TRM method remains the most effective technique to study memory and aging ef-fects, justifying the qualitative distinction between these two energy landscapes. A system is cooled with a waiting time tw using zero magnetic field at an intermediate tem-perature Tw below the freezing temperature Tg , allowing it to relax into lower energy states. The longer the wait, the deeper the relaxation, which is termed “aging." Af-ter reaching base temperature, to measure TRM a weak magnetic field is applied. Upon reheating, the system re-visits these states near Tw, demonstrating memory of the aging process before transitioning to higher energy states at elevated temperatures. The TRM measurements on SCGO (p = 0.97), BCGO (p = 0.96), and CuMn(2%) were conducted as reported in the reference. In SCGO and BCGO, which are spin jam prototypes with a highly frustrating quasi-2D triangular network, aging and mem-ory effects are weaker compared to CuMn(2%). TRM data at waiting times ( tw) from 6 minutes to 100 hours at Tw/T g ∼ 0.7 show intensifying aging and memory ef-fects with increasing tw. Significant aging is observed in CuMn(2%) even for tw = 6 minutes, while SCGO and BCGO show minimal aging at this tw. As tw increases in CuMn(2%), a memory dip develops at Tw for tw > 3

hours, whereas SCGO only exhibits a weak memory ef-fect even at tw = 100 hours Fig. 19(a,d,b,e). How the memory effect behaves for both states can be studied by the aging-induced relative change in magnetization 

(Maging − Mref )/M ref , where Maging and Mref are the magnetization with and without aging. This quantity increases in CuMn(2%) from 3.4% to 8.2% with an in-crease in tw, while in SCGO and BCGO it rises from 0.6% to 2.4% and 0.7% to 3.1%, respectively, from 6 minutes to 10 hours, with a diminished rate of increase for tw > 10 hours, reaching 2.7% at tw = 100 hours for SCGO. While both spin glasses and spin jams dis-play aging and memory effects, canonical spin glasses ex-hibit pronounced memory effects even after short waiting times, indicative of a highly rugged, hierarchical energy landscape (Fig. 19(c, f)). In contrast, spin jamm state displays weaker memory effects and slower aging, con-sistent with a comparatively flatter and less hierarchical energy landscape. Another preferential distinction be-tween these two states is that the spin jam state looks like a shoulder-like feature, while spin glass shows a substan-tial dip in DC magnetization with aging [74, 76].In these systems, the barriers between metastable configurations are more uniformly distributed, leading to smoother re-laxation dynamics and reduced sensitivity to thermal or temporal perturbations.  

> VI. Effect of Chemical Pressure on Spin Freezing

Sometimes, even a subtle perturbation can trigger unexpectedly rich and complex physical phenomena in many-body system. Particularly frustrated magnets are quite sensitive to external perturbation in this context; their nearly degenerate ground states can be tipped from one phase to another by the slightest modification of lattice geometry or exchange interactions. A classic approach to tune the magnetic interaction is through chemical pressure, which is achieved by substituting the cations with different ionic radii. Such substitutions sub-tly modify the bond lengths and bond angles, therefore influencing the local geometry. Since the superexchange interactions sensitively depend on orbital overlap and bond configurations, these structural distortions can al-ter the balance among antiferromagnetic, ferromagnetic and anisotropic (e.g. Kitaev-type) couplings. In a wider context, such external tuning has been instrumental in realizing several emergent phases such as Bose–Einstein condensation [436, 437], unconventional superconductiv-ity [438–441] and exotic spin liquid states [202, 442–445]. In this section, we discuss the role of chemical pressure on the magnetic and topological behavior of the spin glass systems. In particular, we compare the influence of chemical pressure on conventional spin glasses, which are disorder-driven systems, and on systems that show topological spin freezing. 46 (a)  (b)  (c) 

(f) (e) (d)  

> FIG. 19. Aging and memory effect in unconventional and conventional spin glass materials . (a-c) DC magnetization (d-f) thermo-remanent magnetization. Source: adapted from refs.[74] with permission from PNAS.

In conventional spin glasses, such as La 1.85 Sr 0.15 Cu 1−xNi xO4 [432] and dilute CuMn al-loys [446], the magnetic impurities are doped into a non-magnetic host lattice, which gives rise to random exchange interactions that involve ferro and antiferro-magnetic correlations. With increasing the magnetic impurity concentration, the system approaches a perco-lation threshold and the glass transition temperature Tg

progressively increases with further doping. As evident from Fig. 20(a), the rightward shift of peak in χ(T )

suggests an enhancement of Tg with Ni doping at Cu site. The increased concentration of the interacting spins strengthens the collective freezing, highlighting the disorder driven origin of the glassy phase. Unlike in conventional spin glasses, the introduction of non-magnetic impurity at magnetic site [282, 285] not only introduces randomness in the exchange interactions but also perturbs the frustrated, constraint governed manifold. Interestingly, the freezing temperature in such systems often remains unchanged or even decreases slightly with doping (Fig. 20(b, d)), indicating a robust-ness of the frozen state to weak compositional changes. This insensitivity underscores the fundamentally distinct origin of spin freezing. In this context the dynamics are arrested not by random distribution of local fields but by proliferation and entrapment of topological defects in the geometrical framework. These opposing trends show that the freezing in conventional spin glasses is driven by enhanced randomness and local interaction density, while the topologically frustrated systems achieve their glassy behavior from global constraints embedded in their lattice geometry. In the latter case, the chemical pressure subtly perturbs the balance of frustration and interactions. However, the topological nature of the constraints accounts for an exceptional resistance of these system to freezing temperatures. This finding adds to our understanding of spin glass systems and reveals the fundamental role of topology and emergent gauge structure in governing the collective behavior in quantum materials. The freezing temperature Tg depends both on the en-ergy barrier required for collective spin flipping and on the spin correlation length [70, 73]. Particularly con-trolled chemical pressure can tune the degrees of frustra-tion and reconfigure the energy landscape which leads to modifications of freezing temperature or the character-istics of the frozen spin state. In certain instances, the chemical pressure may even drive the system towards a different phase and modify the mechanism of spin freez-ing thereby affecting magnetic and topological properties. Topologically frustrated spin freezing can withstand up to a certian threshold. For instance, in the spin- 12 square lattice system Sr 2CuTe 1−xWxO6, the Goldstone mode is observed, as indicated by the broad maxima in specific heat data, which remain field independent for an applied magnetic field range upto 9 T for doping concentrations 47 4 8 12              

> 9
> 12
> 15
> 18
> 510 15 20
> 0
> 2
> 4
> 6
> 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
> 8
> 16
> 24
> 32
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
> 8
> 16
> 24
> c
> (10 -3 emu/mol.Oe)

T(K) 

> x=0
> 0.05
> 0.1
> 0.2
> 0.3
> Tg
> c
> (10 -3 emu/mol.Oe)

T(K) 

> x=0.07
> 0.13
> 0.25
> 0.30
> 0.40
> 0.63
> Tg
> Tg (K)

x(chemical pressure)   

> La 1.85 Sr 0.15 Cu 1-x Ni xO4
> Au 1-x Fe xCu 1-x Mn x
> Eu xSr 1-x SAg 1-x Mn x
> Tg (K)

## x (chemical pressure)    

> Ni 1-x Zn xGa 2S4BCGO(x) CuCr (S1-x Se x)2(´0.5 )SCGO(x) Cu 2(1-x) Zn 2x (OH) 3NO 3
> Na 2Ir 1-x Ru xO3Ru 1-x Cr xCl 3
> Na 2Ir 1-x Ti xO3

## (a)  (b) 

## (c)  (d) 

Ni 1-xZn xGa 2S4

La 1.85 Sr 0.15 Cu 1-xNix O4

FIG. 20. Conventional Spin Glass vs. Topological Spin Glass . (a) and (b) represent the temperature-dependent magnetic susceptibility for the canonical and the topological spin glasses, respectively. The data highlight the contrasting magnetic responses between the two systems. (c) and (d) depict the dependence of the freezing temperature Tg on doping concentration x for canonical spin glass systems as well as topological glasses. Source: (a-d) adapted from refs.[49, 282, 285, 287, 291, 293, 374, 432–435] with permission. 

of x = 0 .1, 0.2, and 0.5 [60, 231]. However, at higher doping levels ( x = 0 .7, 0.8, 0.9, and 1.0), the system transitions to a canted antiferromagnetic ordering, indi-cating a breakdown of the frustrated spin freezing beyond this doping threshold [231]. To differentiate between the topological spin glass and the canonical two-level (TL) spin glass upon doping, one can analyze their distinct thermodynamic behav-iors, such as specific heat and entropy. Experimen-tally, as Ga 3+ non-magnetic doping density(p) increases in the triangular pyramids Ba 2Sn 2ZnCr 7pGa 10 −7pO22 

(BSZCZO), topological glassiness wanes, leading to a crossover from a spin-jam state to a mixed or TL spin-glass state, with a corresponding linear decrease in the fractional population f of the spin-jam state [210]. At higher p (p ≥ 0.93 ) the system mostly follows a ro-bust spin stiffness and high EJAM whereas at lower p

(p < 0.67 ), TL spin-glass clusters dominate, indicated by a linear Cmag dependence. The variation of zero point entropy S0 with p provides additional insight into the distinction between these states. The total entropy, ex-pressed as Stot (p) = f S JAM (p) + [1 − f ]STL (p) tran-sitions from spin-jam to spin-glass dominance as p de-creases [210]. This crossover elucidates a redistribution of entropy: when the non-magnetic disorder grows, ex-tended spin wave-like modes are suppressed and the en-tropy shifts towards the localized tunneling-type excita-tions associated with strongly interacting Cr sites [183]. This transition is observed in SrCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 , where the dynamic susceptibility is χ′′ measured using INS, fit-ted with a sum of both the tangent and Lorentzian con-tributions [75]. This transition marks a crossover from the spin jam state mostly dominated by HS mode to a conventional frozen state in which dynamics are gov-erned by localized spin clusters. In the higher p re-gion, the low-energy spin fluctuations exhibit progres-sive broadening and linear behavior, which indicates the emergence of Goldstone modes without long-range mag-netic order [75]. With an increase in the doping param-eter, the paradigm of unconventioanal spin freezing shift to canonical spin freezing but it can also result in long-range magnetic ordering, as observed in systems such as Sr 2CuTe 1−xWxO6 (for x = 0.7, 0.8, 0.9 and 1) [231] and (D 3O)Fe 3−y Al y (SO 4)2(OD) 6 [447]. From this study, we observed that controlled doping can potentially affect the magnetic properties and spin dynamics, thereby opening up a fresh way to look at quantum magnetism. In this context, the existence of magnetic analogue of bosonic peak in spin glasses remains an open question since direct experimental evidence has 48 yet to be obtained. Nonetheless, the recent studies offer a promising evidence suggesting the emerging magnetic bosonic peak (MBP) in conventional spin glasses. For ex-ample, the classical spin glass system Cu 1−xMn x exhibits a localized bosonic peak, displaying an intriguing inter-play among disorder, frustration and spin dynamics [234]. INS experiments demonstrate a broad low-energy mag-netic excitations that scale with the Mn concentration. This indicates that as disorder increases, the energy spec-trum of these excitations broadens and the peak energy shifts to higher values. A characteristic peak is observed around 2 meV below spin glass temperature Tg in the magnetic susceptibility χ′′ (Q, ω ) with a tail extending to higher energies. Such behavior is indicative of localized spin excitations that arises within the short range correla-tion region of spin glass state [234]. The Q-independence of these excitations exhibits a pronounced enhancement at specific wave vectors indicating the presence of short range ferromagnetic interactions. When the temperature rises above Tg , a notable changes in the spectrum are ob-served, signaling the onset of relaxation process. How-ever, bolow Tg the excitations retain their Bose-scaled intensity, indicating that the MBP arrises from ther-mally populated localized excitations confined within the metastable regions of the spin glass energy landscape. The increasing Mn concentration leads to the broaden-ing of excitation spectrum, highlighting the significance of disorder in creating these localized bosonic modes. The INS results suggest that the MBP arises from the collec-tive response of the spins entrapped in the rugged energy landscape of the spin glass, where each metastable state contributes to the overall excitation spectrum.  

> VII. The Magnetic Trichotomy: Order, Glass, and Liquid

The frustrated magnets exhibit a variety of ground states that are broadly categorized into three groups namely: long range magnetically ordered state, spin glass state and highly fluctuating entangled quantum spin liq-uid state. Fig. 21 schematically depicts the contrasting energy landscapes of ordered, frozen, and liquid phases under the influence of key control parameters such as chemical substitution, pressure, and magnetic field in the frustrated magnets, along with some representative can-didate materials. In frustrated magnetic ordered state, the onset of long-range magnetic order occurs below a critical temperature Tc which is typically suppressed compared to characteristic exchange coupling strength 

J [448]. When the spin stiffness is large, and quan-tum fluctuations or thermal fluctuations act as a per-turbation, the system lifts the degeneracy of frustrated manifold and selects an ordered configurations by break-ing the rotational and possibly lattice symmetries. This phenomenon is known as order-by-disorder mechanism, which stabilizes a particular ordered state entropically or quantum mechanically [449]. Depending on the ex-change couplings and anisotropies the resulting magnetic order may be collinear (Néel), coplanar ( 120 ◦ structure) or non coplanar (multiple-Q textures) [450, 451].These systems are characterized by a λ-type peak in specific heat akin to the λ transition observed in the superfluid helium [452]. This anomaly signals the establishment of low-energy collective modes, namely Goldstone modes which arise from the spontaneous symmetry breaking of continuous spin rotational symmetry. Such fluctuation-induced selection plays a crucial role on the ground state of frustrated magnetic systems. For instance, in classi-cal spinels like ZnCr 2O4, magnetic ordering is accompa-nied by a spin-lattice coupling-driven structural distor-tion that relieves frustration, a form of spin-Peierls-like transition that lowers the total free energy [453]. De-spite the dominance of classical order in this regime, proximity to frustration often leaves clear fingerprints. These manifest as soft modes, roton-like minima in the magnon spectrum, or sub-extensive degeneracies, which can be revealed by tuning the system toward the other two regimes. In the QSL regime, the spin degrees of free-dom do not order down to the lowest temperatures de-spite strong exchange interactions [17]. The preservation of spin rotational symmetry, even at low temperatures, occurs due to the quantum superposition among macro-scopically many spin configurations that lead to a state of long-range quantum entanglement [47, 454]. The ex-citations in such systems are often fractionalized, such as spinons, Majorana fermions, vison and emergent gauge bosons whose statistics and dynamics are governed by an emergent gauge structure. The defining feature of this phase is the collapse of spin stiffness ( ρeff → 0) driven by strong zero-point motion, implying that twisting the spin configuration requires vanishingly small energy. As a result, the low-energy excitations exhibit Dirac-like dis-persions or nearly flat bands, which originate from de-structive interference among the hopping amplitudes of the fractionalized quasiparticles. In some frustrated magnetic lattices, symmetry and topology combine to protect gapless points, whereas in others the topological band gaps emerge, which give rise to quantized responses such as thermal Hall con-ductance. This regime emerges when the frustration is strong enough to suppress any magnetic order state, re-sulting in exotic quantum states with intriguing prop-erties. A dynamically arrested regime arises between the quantum spin liquid and classical ordered phases, wherein frustration and topology together entrap the system within a manifold of metastable states. In con-trast to conventional spin glasses, where freezing arises from quenched disorder, the constraints in these frus-trated systems emerge intrinsically from the topology of their configuration space. Examples include closed flux loops in kagome lattices, Dirac strings in pyrochlores (Fig. 1(d)), and nontrivial winding numbers in triangu-lar magnets. In such systems, the free energy landscape is highly rugged with multiple hierarchical valleys sepa-rated by barriers that originate not only from exchange 49 Topological Spin 

Freezing 

Spin 

Liquid 

Long -range 

Ordering 

> Li 2RhO 3
> H3LiIr 2O6
> Na 2IrO 3

Chemical pressure 

Frustration 

Spin stiffness 

> Sr 2CuTe 0.5 W0.5 O6
> Sr 2CuTe 2O6
> NiGa 2S4
> (H 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OH) 6
> Mn 2Ga 2S5
> Y2Mo 2O7
> ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2
> YCu 3(OH) 6Br 3
> ZnCr 2O4
> Lu 2Mo 2O5N2
> Lu 2Mo 2O7

FIG. 21. Schematics of Novel States in Frustrated Quantum Magnets. This highlights distinct regimes in se-lected frustrated materials, categorized by their low-energy excitations and underlying energy landscapes. Conventional zig-zag and spiral orders correspond to well-defined minima in the energy landscape, characteristic of classical magnetic order. In contrast, quantum spin liquids exhibit a nearly flat landscape with extensively degenerate ground states, while topological spin freezing arises from rugged landscapes with metastable states separated by finite energy barriers. 

energies but also from topological invariants. As a result, spin dynamics slow down dramatically, and the spin correlation function decays with a timescale that is much longer than the microscopic spin preces-sion periods, but the system never becomes truly static. The experimental probes uncover this “frozen yet fluctu-ating" nature: the spin lattice relaxation rate remains finite down to the lowest measurable temperature and higher order susceptibilities show non-Gaussian fluctua-tions. 

VIII. Operational Definition and Role of Topology in Topological Spin Glass 

In this review, we have discussed the unconventional spin glasses and their properties in detail. The termi-nology “topological spin freezing” encompasses a diverse class of frustrated magnets in which the system’s equi-librium is hindered by a topological constraint, whether arising from real-space structure or emergent gauge sym-metries. So, for all the above systems, topology is not just a static, invariant property (like a hole in a donut) that can be easily measured; instead, it acts as a dy-namical constraint on spin dynamics. Here, we provide a technical framework that distinguishes the various roles of topology in spin dynamical arrest. To make it clearer, we describe three distinct physical scenarios where non-local properties govern the dynamics: 1. Real-Space Topological Defects (Classical/Semi-Classical): In systems like 2D antiferromagnetic kagomes, the ground state degeneracy allows continuous zero-energy modes known as “spin folds" or “weathervane modes" [62]. In the presence of XY anisotropy, the system undergoes a KT transition that involves the binding of non-Abelian defects. These defects, which are either closed or open domain walls, separate regions of uniform and staggered chirality, and cost zero energy but are non-commuting under propagation. Here, the glassiness arises from these non-Abelian topological processes rather than thermal activation. For triangular lattices with noncollinear spin configurations, the pairing of associated Z2 vortices is thought to be the reason behind the glassiness observed in some of the Heisenberg triangular lattices even in the clean limit [326]. In the pyrochlore fluoride CsNiCrF 6,the weak interloop couplings induce a spin-nematic state that is associated with the slowing down of the relaxation process during the rearrangements of spin loops, which is a possible mechanism for spin freez-ing [305]. Similarly, the multipolar reorganization of the emergent loop excitations in gadolinium gallium garnet GGG leads to spin freezing in the sub-Kelvin region [424]. A similar scenario may explain the anoma-lous spin freezing observed in the low dilution limit of ZnCr 2(1 −x)Ga 2xO4 [306] and Zn 1−xCd xCr 2O4 [308]. The parent compound ZnCr 2O4, as discussed previously, forms a composite structure of hexagonal spin loops of Cr moments, which may undergo a slow relaxation process in the rearrangements of spin loops due to site dilution. However, in the large dilution limit, such as in MgCrGaO 4 [455] and ZnCrGaO 4 (unpublished data), where there is nearly 50% vacancy in the pyrochlore site of the Cr sublattice, the spins remain dynamic down to a temperature three orders of magnitude lower than θCW .This could be due to magnetic loops of varying lengths (open- or closed-ended), which give rise to algebraic spin correlations. 2. Emergent Gauge Structure: A topological spin glass in a weakly nonmagnetically diluted spin ice emerges from the interplay between quenched disorder and the underlying topological spin liquid [69]. The microscopic starting point is the spin-ice rule on a py-rochlore lattice, with the “2-in–2-out” ice rule setting along local 〈111 〉 axes [456]. Projecting the 3D pyrochlore into 2D, we can represent each spin as a dumbbell shape with both ends carrying a pair of opposite magnetic charges ±Q and dipole moments μ [113]. The key en-ergy scales are the dipolar interaction energy D and the monopole excitation gap ∆, which controls the onset of the Coulombic phase that is characterized by gauge fields and algebraic spin correlations. Upon nonmagnetic dilu-50 5     

> 4
> 3
> 2
> 1
> 0-20246
> Entropy
> Energy

# (a)  (b)      

> Energy
> Entropy
> FIG. 22. Weak broken ergodicity in geometically frus-trated magnets. Entangle entropy for (a) square-kagome (a) and (b) kagome magnet. The circled in (a) is localized magnons in square-kagome. Sources: (a) adapted from the ref. [457] and (b) adapted from ref. [458].

tion, the vacancy could be interpreted as a "ghost spin” creating a pair of opposite magnetic charges on adjacent tetrahedra. This mapping simplifies the calculation: in-stead of considering dense interacting spin systems, we can track a dilute gas of ghost dipoles embedded in a fluc-tuating Coulomb background [69]. Although in the new framework, the effective Hamiltonian is dipolar energy, it should be renormalized to account for the fluctuating spin-ice background. As a result, the effective interac-tion becomes D′ = D + 3T√2π where T is the temperature scale, demonstrating that the entropic fluctuations me-diate the long-range interaction between the defects. In this framework, the Coulomb phase effectively “dresses” the impurities and encoded the topological correlations into their interactions. Another important aspect is that the impurities are charge neutral, so they do not disturb Coulomb phase correlations; instead, they coexist with the gauge structure. The freezing of this ghost spin oc-curs at a critical temperature Tg ∝ x, where x is the di-lution amount. Monte Carlo simulation confirms a glass transition with an Edward-Anderson type order param-eter defined as: qαβ 

> EA

(k) = 1

> N

P 

> i

μα(1)  

> i

μβ(2)  

> i

exp ( ik · ri),with α, β = x, y, z are spin components and N is the number of ghost spins [69]. A diverging susceptibility oc-curs below Tg and qEA grows continuously. Importantly, the freezing occurs only in the impurity sector, and the bulk remains in the Coulombic phase. This is fundamen-tally different from the conventional spin glass, where the freezing destroys such underlying correlations. Here, the glassiness is built on top of the topological structure of the spin ice state rather than competing with it. 3. Glassiness due to Hilbert Space Fragmenta-tion: In frustrated magnets, the existence of spin liq-uids and associated fractionalized excitations is well de-fined close to the ground state or in thermal equilib-rium. However, the geometry of the lattice and quan-tum mechanical effects can conspire together to frag-ment the Hilbert space, where the quantum many-body scar emerges as a nonthermal eigenstate, violating the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH) [170, 459]. These scarred states obstruct ergodic relaxation and, as a result, can give rise to spin-glass behavior in disorder-free systems [458, 460]. The convergence of frustration, scar theory, and fragmentation opens a new frontier for the study of quantum glassiness in clean many-body sys-tems [458, 461, 462]. In many-body ergodic systems, the initial state will evolve to the thermal state under the unitary evolution of the underlying Hamiltonian. Since thermalization erases memory of the initial state, it is essential to identify non-ergodic quantum systems that preserve this information. For a spin −1/2 kagome lattice constructed from XYZ Hamiltonian with Jx = Jy and Jz /J x = −1/2, exhibits emergent Hilbert space fragmentation [170, 457]. This setting allows the exact construction of an exponentially large set of eigenstates of three distinct types. The key point is that geometric frustration imposes a local con-straint: no two neighboring sites can share the same state. As a result, the accessible Hilbert space is strongly reduced. Importantly, these states are not trivially re-lated; instead, they belong to different topological sec-tors that cannot be connected by local spin operations. Figure 22(a) illustrates the entanglement entropy (EE) of all eigenstates of the staggered XXZ Hamiltonian. As the Hilbert space is turned into disconnected sectors, it exhibits distinct EE values despite sharing the same en-ergy [457]. Thus, the EE value is not a single-valued function of energy as expected for systems obeying the ETH rule. Figure 22(b) shows how a square-kagome lat-tice can host quantum scar states due to the geometric frustration and localized excitations [458]. Here, each square plaquette is connected by triangular units, with different exchange couplings assigned to the bonds within the square and to the connecting triangular bonds. Lo-calized magnons arise from spin-flip excitations confined to the square plaquette. Due to destructive interfer-ence arising from geometric frustration, these magnons cannot propagate through the lattice and remain spa-tially localized. So the frustration dynamically projects out hopping processes, which generate a constrained sub-space that remains decoupled from the thermal contin-uum, thereby embedding low-entanglement eigenstates within the many-body spectrum [458]. As discussed pre-viously, in exactly solvable models like the Kitaev sys-tem, the sheer abundance of conserved quantities (local 

Z2 gauge fluxes or plaquette operators) arising from the problem’s integrability hinders the exploration of the full Hilbert space, potentially leading to glassiness. In the above-discussed systems, geometrical frustration or interference mechanisms partition the Hilbert space into dynamically disconnected subspaces. Thus, the re-sulting glassiness is not governed by energetic barriers but by topological obstructions in configuration space, leading to dynamical arrest even in the absence of disor-der. In this sense, the system realizes a topological spin glass, in which glassiness emerges from the interplay of frustration, emergent constraints, and nontrivial topol-51 ogy.  

> IX. Technological Relevance and Prospects of Frustrated Spin Glasses

Spin glasses were originally explored in disordered magnetic alloys; however, the implications of spin glass theory across disciplines make it a model system in many settings. Quenched disorder, magnetic frustration, and a highly rugged energy landscape are the defining features of spin glasses. These characteristics have provided deep conceptual insights that have influenced diverse fields, including optimization, computer science, neuroscience, and information theory [118, 179, 466]. For example, the mapping between Ising spin-glass Hamiltonian and NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems. It is also extended in the study of optimization algorithms, sim-ulated annealing, and more recently, quantum anneal-ing [467, 468]. The glassy energy landscape acts as a computational resource in quantum optimization devices. Similarly, spin-glass models laid the foundation for Hop-field neural networks. It is one of the earliest theoretical models of associative memory in neuroscience [469]. In Hopfield networks, stored memories align with en-ergy minima, enabling the system to retrieve a complete pattern from incomplete or noisy inputs. The principles of spin glass physics can be applied to coding theory and complex neural networks [470, 471]. Spin glasses can be useful in improving the design of disordered magnets and magnetic storage devices [178]. Topological spin glasses can have much more profound applications, as they exhibit the characteristic frustra-tion and disorder, along with topological constraints. The glassy behavior in topological spin glasses arises not just from random local interactions, but from the complex interplay of defects, gauge fluxes, and emer-gent strings that are constrained by the system’s under-lying topology [113, 472, 473]. Qualitatively, this sug-gests the possibility of a new paradigm in spin glass physics, in which the emergent collective state exhibits an intrinsic robustness analogous to the "quantum pro-tectorate" state [474, 475]. Here, the collective excita-tions are merely affected by the microscopic perturba-tions. For example, spin freezing in Kitaev magnets and pyrochlore spin ice could provide a route to realize a topo-logically stable quantum memory where the information is encoded in the nonlocal degree of freedom that remains robust against local perturbations. This form of topolog-ical freezing inherently possesses aspects of fault toler-ance, which can be important in quantum information science [363, 476]. The interplay between glassiness and topology can have dual aspects. In one way, it guides us on how to suppress and control freezing by suitable ma-terial design and control parameters, in order to stabilize more exotic states, such as spin liquids and high Tc su-perconductors. On the other hand, it suggests methods to harness topologically protected metastable states for robust memory or spintronic devices [477, 478]. Thus the topological extension of spin freezing offers exciting pos-sibilities for quantum-functional materials that combine complexity, stability, and emergent protective properties. Electrical control of antiferromagnetic order has be-come a central pursuit in spintronics, motivated by the absence of stray fields, ultrafast dynamics, and robust-ness against magnetic perturbations [479, 480]. Un-like ferromagnets, however, the vanishing net magne-tization of antiferromagnets makes it difficult to cou-ple external currents directly to the Néel vector. The spin–orbit torque (SOT) mechanism provides one route, where current-induced spin accumulation transfers an-gular momentum to staggered sublattices. Yet such mechanisms often require large current densities and produce domain-fragmented switching, limiting their re-producibility and scalability. These limitations have driven the search for alternative routes in which col-lective magnetic backgrounds, rather than rigid domain walls, mediate torque transfer. A particularly striking experimental observation linking spin freezing to func-tionality arises from electrical switching measurements in magnetically intercalated transition-metal dichalco-genide, Fe 1/3+ δ NbS 2, where the Fe ions form a periodic sublattice within the van der Waals (vdW) gaps of the NbS 2 host, stabilizing long-range antiferromagnetic order below about 42 K [481]. As shown in Fig. 23(a-f), the amplitude of current-induced switching exhibits a sharp maximum precisely at the spin-glass freezing tempera-ture, Tg , even though the long-range antiferromagnetic order occurs at a distinctly higher temperature, T ′ 

> N

[463]. This behavior provides unambiguous evidence that the frozen spin-glass component is not an inert background but actively facilitates torque transfer to the antiferro-magnetic order parameter. From a theoretical perspec-tive, this enhancement can be understood within the framework of collective spin hydrodynamics: below Tg ,the Edwards–Anderson order parameter acquires a finite value, leading to the emergence of low-energy collective modes akin to HS modes in glassy magnets [55], which al-low the disordered but rigid spin background to sustain long-wavelength twists acting as a topological channel for redistributing angular momentum injected by elec-trical currents [463]. Consequently, the torque trans-fer does not rely solely on conventional spin–orbit pro-cesses acting on the rigid Néel vector, but instead is mediated by the winding dynamics of the frozen spin texture. The sharp resonance-like peak in the switch-ing amplitude at Tg reflects this dynamic interplay: as the spin glass forms, the stiffness of the frozen texture is maximized, enabling efficient coupling to the antifer-romagnetic vector. The critical role of the spin glass becomes especially clear when comparing different inter-calation levels. Near-stoichiometric compositions such as for x = 0 .33 and x = 0 .34 , the material displays sharp antiferromagnetic transitions but no glassiness in these systems; the electrical switching is weak and unstable, with pulse-to-pulse variations that underscore the limi-52 (a)  (b)  (c) 

# (d)  (e)  (f) 

# (g)  (h)  (i)

FIG. 23. Technological prospects of topological spin freezing . Temperature-dependent zero-field anisotropic magne-toresistance (zAMR) and electrical switching in Fe xNbS 2 for compositions near the commensurate value x = 1 /3. Panels (a–c) show zAMR curves for x = 0 .31 , 0.34, and 0.35, marking the onset of antiferromagnetic order at TN . Panels (d–f) display the corresponding current-induced switching amplitudes, revealing a striking enhancement in the Fe-rich sample ( x = 0 .35 ). The switching maximum coincides with the spin-glass freezing temperature Tg , establishing that the frozen spin component actively mediates torque transfer to the AFM order. This result demonstrates how small deviations from stoichiometry ( δ̸ = 0 )transform Fe 1/3+ δ NbS 2 into a unique system where topological spin freezing boosts electrical control of antiferromagnetism. (g) Magnetic force microscopy image of Fe 3GaTe 2 nanoflakes with 8.5% Fe int concentration, measured at room temperature under zero-field-cooled (ZFC) conditions. (g) Schematic structure of kagome Mn 3(C 6S6). (i) Field-dependent magnetization of Mn 3(C 6S6), recorded after cooling in +1 T (red), –1 T (blue), and zero field (black). The shifted hysteresis loops demonstrate symmetric displacements relative to the ZFC loop. Adapted from the refs [284, 463–465]. 

tations of a purely ordered background. By contrast, off-stoichiometric compounds with x = 0 .31 (Fe-deficient) and x = 0 .35 (Fe-excess) both host a coexisting spin glass that couples strongly to the canted antiferromagnetic or-der. For x = 0 .31 , the freezing temperature coincides with TN , leading to switching that tracks the antiferro-magnetic order parameter but with markedly enhanced stability. While for x = 0 .35 , the situation is even more striking: although the antiferromagnetic canting transi-tion occurs near 37 K, the switching amplitude is dra-matically amplified only at the lower spin-glass freezing temperature around 15 K. The NMR reveals that the frozen glass exerts an exchange field on the antiferro-magnetic sublattices, producing asymmetric line split-tings and demonstrating that the glass texture biases the antiferromagnet. Remarkably, the sense of Néel-vector rotation under current is opposite for x = 0 .31 

and x = 0 .35 compositions, indicating that the micro-scopic spin-glass textures associated with vacancies and interstitials encode opposite topological winding biases. These observations firmly establish that the glass is not merely a disordered state but a topologically constrained collective state whose dynamics open a robust channel for torque transfer. In light of in another vdW material NbFeTe 2, the presence of a spin-glass state plays a piv-otal role in shaping its low-field magnetic and transport behavior [482]. The spin-glass behavior appears in the low-field regime ( B < 0.7 T) below the ferromagnetic or-dering temperature. The Nb deficiencies and the result-ing local inversion-symmetry breaking induce canting of Fe spins, giving rise to finite scalar spin chirality within spin clusters that generate the observed topological Hall 53 effect [482]. An illuminating case is the ferromagnetically coupled triangular vdW Fe 3GaTe 2 lattice. Here, the partial in-tercalation of Fe ions into octahedral sites of the van der Waals gap gives rise to a random distribution of lo-cal moments [464]. As a result of these intercalations, there appears a random distribution of the exchange field pertaining to random anisotropy. This manifests as macroscopic spin freezing, as evident from the ZFC-FC bifurcation of magnetization. The glassiness doesn’t degrade the ferromagnetic order rather it produces a heterogeneous magnetic landscape. Regions with strong and nearly uniform ferromagnetic alignment coexist with "Ferri" regions where the antiferromagnetically coupled disordered spins dilute the net moment. Cross-correlated measurements using magnetic force microscopy, XMCD in photoemission electron microscopy, and 4D Lorentz scanning transmission electron microscopy combine to reveal this mesoscale phase separation. At room tem-perature, the induction field is about ∼0.3 T in the Ferro phase and around ∼0.15 T in the Ferri phase. The dis-ordered magnetic background has a strong influence on the stability and organization of skyrmions. In the Ferri regions, skyrmions form a triangular lattice with high bond-orientational order. Whereas in the Ferro regions, which contain many dislocations, the triangular lattice melts into a liquid-like spin arrangement. It is further re-vealed that the skyrmions possess a curling profiles that suggest the emergence of three-dimensionally twisted tex-tures pinned by the glassy environment. These findings suggest that the quenched disorder not only controls the degree of positional order but also enriches the topology of the individual solitons. With a moderately applied magnetic field it is observed that the ring-shaped dislo-cations collapse into skyrmions with Q = 0 .Another interesting outcome of topological spin freez-ing is its effect on exchange bias. In conventional sys-tems, exchange bias manifests as a horizontal shift of the hysteresis loop in layered ferromagnet/antiferromagnet materials that are promising candidates for magneto-electronic devices [483]. This is attributed to the pin-ning of magnetic moments at the interface between the two layers [484]. However, recent studies have shown that exchange bias can also appear in frustrated spin glasses without the need for heterostructures. For exam-ple, in Mn 3(C 6S6) (Fig. 23(h)), which is a kagome lattice made from Mn 2+ ions and benzenehexathiol (BHT) lig-ands [284]. This S = 5 /2 kagome compound is a topo-logical spin glass transition with a glass transition tem-perature of 12 K and a Curie-Weiss temperature of −253 

K [284, 465]. The topological glassy background pro-duces a substantial shift in the magnetic hysteresis loop at low temperatures. When this material is cooled in a ±1 T field, the loop shifts sideways by about 1625 Oe at 2 K, and its coercivity changes by around 395 Oe (see Fig. 23(i)). This effect is not lost after wait-ing an hour at low temperature without a field, and both bias and coercivity level off after repeating the loop sev-eral times. Notably, it is possible to create the bias even after cooling in zero field, simply by applying a field at low temperature. This behavior is not what one would expect from minor-loop effects, nor does it match what is typically seen in conventional ferromag-net/antiferromagnet systems. A similar phenomenon is also observed in other topological spin glass hydronium iron jarosite (H 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OH) 6, which shows an ex-change bias of about 1340 Oe after field cooling un-der 4 T. Frustrated magnets like Mn 3(C 6S6) represent tunable platforms for hosting different quantum ground states, where chemical substitutions can switch between glassy, superconducting, or topologically insulating be-havior. For instance, copper-based variants Cu 3(BHT) become superconducting below 0.25 K [485, 486] , while Ni 3(BHT) 2 turns out to be a topological insulator [487]. These varied properties arise from the same type of chem-ical framework and underscore how tweaking the lat-tice or introducing controlled disorder can stabilize new ground states or magnetic textures. Even in ferrimag-netic alloys like TbCo, spin freezing can exist alongside long-range magnetic order, influencing how spins trans-port or switch under a field [488]. These examples illus-trate emerging ways to harness spin glassiness or frus-tration for future device applications, particularly where magnetic memory or switching is crucial. Finally, we give a brief view of self-induced spin glasses owing to specific crystalline lattice structures that gen-erate competing exchange interactions. These self in-duced spin-freezing effects can have complex magnetic states and may lead to promising applications in fu-ture technologies [489, 490]. At low temperatures, el-emental crystalline Nd shows a self-induced spin glass state [489]. Spin-polarized STM images show that the system is not randomly disordered. Instead, it is char-acterized by multi-Q local order with nanoscale patches having distinct periodicities, each defined by multiple nearly degenerate wavev ectors. In reciprocal space, this appears as broad “ Q pockets,” reminiscent of flat val-leys in the magnetic free-energy surface, where no sin-gle ordering vector dominates. The result is a frozen state with strong local correlations but without global coherence. Crucially, this state exhibits aging and dy-namic heterogeneity, with relaxation times depending on the underlying Q vector. Such behavior parallels the heterogeneous dynamics of structural glasses and under-scores the rugged multiwell character of the spin-Q en-ergy landscape [491]. A counterintuitive twist emerges upon heating. Instead of disorder growing with tem-perature, Nd undergoes a transition into a long-range multi-Q ordered state above the glass transition tem-perature ( ≈ 8 K) [490]. Here, frustration is partially lifted because the weaker cubic–cubic sublattice correla-tions collapse, while the stronger hexagonal–hexagonal correlations stabilize order. Atomistic spin dynamics simulations confirm this order-from-disorder mechanism, predicting a sequence: low-T spin glass →intermediate multi-Q order →high-T paramagnet. This strange ther-54 mal pathway shows how sublattice competition works as a topological constraint on the magnetic manifold, de-termining whether the system freezes or orders. Putting neodymium in the bigger picture of frustrated and topo-logical spin glasses shows important differences. In tri-angular and kagome frustrated magnets, defect-induced textures (e.g., Z2 vortices or spin folds) act as topologi-cal barriers to long-range order [62, 492], whereas in py-rochlores, Dirac strings and monopole excitations result in constrained freezing [69, 392]. Nd attains glassiness via Q-space degeneracy, wherein the "topology" is sit-uated not in defects of real-space spins but in the flat valleys of reciprocal space. Nd shows that disorder is not necessary; frustration built into crystal symmetry can be enough to freeze.  

> X. Summary and Outlook

Understanding the complex, many-body non-equilibrium phenomena cross different length scales and disciplines leads to numerous fundamental discov-eries that open new avenues for potential applications. In this review, we investigated promising frustrated spin lattices that show anomalous spin freezing behavior. The study reveals that the interplay between competing in-teractions, emergent degrees of freedom, unconventional electronic band structure, acting together with quenched disorder, results in the realization of a non-trivial spin glass state in a broad range of frustrated magnets. Early studies on canonical spin glasses have raised a funda-mental query about the presence of Goldstone modes in the frozen state; however, experimental findings do not confirm this. Recent observations in highly frustrated spin glasses have revealed the existence of Goldstone modes in the frozen state. The tuning parameters, such as the applied magnetic field, chemical pressure, and hydrostatic pressure, indicate that we can transition from a liquid-like dynamic state and a spin solid state to a short-range driven spin glass state. Overall, the frustrated magnets show a paradigm shift from canonical spin glass to quantum fluctuation-driven topological spin glass in the limit of clean, densely populated magnetic systems. The combined study of bulk thermodynamic proper-ties, along with microscopic signatures via NMR, μSR, and INS experiments, performed on topologically frus-trated spin glasses supports the presence of a large ground-state degeneracy, the onset of short-range spin correlations, and the emergence of gapless excitations. In summary, our research underscores the importance of topological effects in the study of frustrated mag-nets. The ubiquitous nature of glassiness of topologi-cal origin in several classes of frustrated magnets offers an ideal platform to understand many emergent quan-tum manybody phenomena through the prism of topol-ogy, underlying symmetry, and external stimuli. Topo-logical defects in spin glasses, including vortices, do-main walls, or frustrated spin clusters, can act as pin-ning centers in inducing glassy dynamics and metastable states essential for topological spin textures, including skyrmions. Skyrmions hold great potential for technolog-ical applications in spintronics and neuromorphic com-puting, where controlled skyrmion motion is required. In frustrated quantum materials, non-trivial fractional exci-tations, spin correlations, and competition between emer-gent degrees of freedom play a vital role in inducing exotic states such as Kitaev QSL with non-Abelian statistics, and classical spin liquids with fractions that hold tremen-dous potential to address some of the fundamental ques-tions in physics and materials science. In this context, ex-perimental detection and detailed insights into these ex-otic quasiparticle excitations by microscopic experimen-tal techniques in complementary time scales are highly essential. Suitable strategies to manipulate and control exotic excitations in the topological quantum states of frustrated quantum materials are other uncharted areas to be pursued, as this may aid in the design and growth of novel quantum materials with enhanced functionalities to address challenges in computing, energy, and storage. Furthermore, insights into the role of external stimuli such as pressure and magnetic fields are crucial to re-alizing emergent quantum phenomena in the vicinity of a quantum critical point that go beyond the standard paradigm. The exploration of topological spin freezing is just beginning, and a growing eagerness to uncover the potential discoveries that lie ahead, promising to un-ravel numerous mysteries across various fields. Moreover, the implications of our work extend beyond the realm of fundamental physics. The suitable choice of a model frustrated magnet is crucial for achieving topological spin freezing with exotic low-energy quasi-particle excitations. However, unavoidable disorder and defects in real mate-rials pose a strong constraint. Frustrated spin glasses are known for their complex and highly degenerate en-ergy landscape with a large number of metastable states, which makes it challenging to control, predict, manipu-late, and exploit their magnetic behavior. In this vein, efficient routes to design frustrated spin glass materials are desired wherein one can control frustration, disorder, exchange couplings, and anisotropies for the faithful real-ization of topological spin freezing and associated excita-tions, leading to ultimate functionalities as per demand. The insights gained from studying topological spin freez-ing may aid in the design and development of promis-ing quantum materials for next-generation technologies in spintronics and computing Given the prevalence of complex energy landscapes in frustrated magnets, com-plementary techniques aimed at mapping the complete topography of frustrated magnets, ideally single crystals and heterostructures, are highly essential for the unam-biguous identification of exotic low energy states in the topological spin glass state. In addition, advanced theo-retical efforts are required to elucidate the complex spin freezing mechanism in frustrated magnets and to guide experiments, and vice versa. This approach may delin-55 eate generic glass features in a large class of frustrated quantum magnets from conventional spin glass materi-als, which possibly shed deep insights into the complex hierarchy of states in frustrated quantum materials. As we move towards a future where quantum technologies become increasingly prevalent, the ability to control and manipulate topological states will be crucial. Frustrated spin glass represents an ideal class of material for its fundamental appeal and potential technological applica-tions. Frustrated magnets offer a paradigmatic model for verifying complex disorder, emergence, and topological order in quantum materials. In view of the experimen-tal constraints in developing structurally perfect ideal frustrated materials, efforts may be directed towards the deployment of quantum simulators, which are synthetic lattices made of cold atoms, qubits, or nanomagnets, for the best realization of topological spin freezing in frus-trated quantum magnets and exotic low-energy excita-tions. This approach will validate long-standing theoret-ical predictions regarding the quantum behavior of spin glasses and the presence of exotic states such as quantum spin liquids [493–495]. From a technological perspective, the inherent com-plexity of spin glasses in frustrated quantum magnets represents a fundamental characteristic. The highly de-generate, disordered landscape of metastable states of frustrated spin glass materials offers a viable ground for neuromorphic computing. Frustrated spin glass networks act like inherent annealers that can solve complex, real-life problems, including protein folding and complex traf-fic networks efficiently. Frustrated spin glass materials are promising candidates to host high exchange bias, the topological Hall effect, anisotropic magnetoresistance, and topological spin textures, such as skyrmions, which are key ingredients for high-speed and high-density spin-tronic devices. Notably, exotic characteristic features, including topological order, complex energy landscape, quantum memory, and highly entangled states of topo-logical spin glass materials, are proposed to provide a basis for robust quantum information processing technol-ogy [496]. As Philip W. Anderson famously quoted [497], “The history of spin glass may be the best example I know of the dictum that a real scientific mystery is worth pur-suing to the ends of the Earth for its own sake, indepen-dently of any obvious practical importance or intellectual glamour.” This perspective continues to resonate today: spin glasses remain a fertile arena where subtle quantum mechanical effects, once thought esoteric, can guide the design of materials and devices for quantum technologies yet to be imagined. 

> Acknowledgement

P.K. acknowledges the funding by the Anusandhan Na-tional Research Foundation (ANRF), Department of Sci-ence and Technology, India through Research Grants.                                                

> [1] A. Einstein, The foundation of the general theory of relativity, Annalen Phys 49 , 769 (1916). [2] M. Nakahara, Geometry, topology and physics (CRC press, 2018). [3] D. Tong, The unquantum quantum, Scientific American
> 307 , 46 (2012). [4] B. Zwiebach, A first course in string theory (Cambridge University Press, 2004). [5] G. H. Wannier, Antiferromagnetism. The Triangular Ising Net, Physical Review 79 , 357 (1950). [6] P. W. Anderson, Resonating valence bonds: A new kind of insulator?, Materials Research Bulletin 8, 153 (1973). [7] M. Kac, Can one hear the shape of a drum?, The amer-ican mathematical monthly 73 , 1 (1966). [8] X.-G. Wen, Quantum field theory of many-body systems: From the origin of sound to an origin of light and elec-trons (Oxford university press, 2004). [9] X.-G. Wen, Topological orders in rigid states, Interna-tional Journal of Modern Physics B 4, 239 (1990). [10] D. J. Thouless, M. Kohmoto, M. P. Nightingale, and M. den Nijs, Quantized Hall Conductance in a Two-Dimensional Periodic Potential, Physical Review Let-ters 49 , 405 (1982). [11] M. Z. Hasan and C. L. Kane, Colloquium: Topological insulators, Reviews of Modern Physics 82 , 3045 (2010). [12] J. Khatua, B. Sana, A. Zorko, M. Gomilšek, K. Sethu-pathi, M. R. Rao, M. Baenitz, B. Schmidt, and P. Khuntia, Experimental signatures of quantum and topological states in frustrated magnetism, Physics Re-ports 1041 , 1 (2023). [13] P. Khuntia, M. Velazquez, Q. Barthélemy, F. Bert, E. Kermarrec, A. Legros, B. Bernu, L. Messio, A. Zorko, and P. Mendels, Gapless ground state in the archetypal quantum kagome antiferromagnet ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2, Na-ture Physics 16 , 469 (2020). [14] D. Basov, R. Averitt, and D. Hsieh, Towards properties on demand in quantum materials, Nature Materials 16 ,1077 (2017). [15] T. Arh, B. Sana, M. Pregelj, P. Khuntia, Z. Jagličić, M. Le, P. Biswas, P. Manuel, L. Mangin-Thro, A. Ozarowski, et al. , The Ising triangular-lattice anti-ferromagnet neodymium heptatantalate as a quantum spin liquid candidate, Nature Materials 21 , 416 (2022). [16] Y. Tokura, M. Kawasaki, and N. Nagaosa, Emergent functions of quantum materials, Nature Physics 13 ,1056 (2017). [17] L. Balents, Spin liquids in frustrated magnets, Nature
> 464 , 199 (2010). [18] A. Lazicki, D. McGonegle, J. Rygg, D. Braun, D. Swift, M. Gorman, R. Smith, P. Heighway, A. Higginbotham, M. J. Suggit, et al. , Metastability of diamond ramp-compressed to 2 terapascals, Nature 589 , 532 (2021). [19] I. Božović, An unstable pathway to room tempera-ture superconductivity?, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 118 , e2111471118 (2021).

56 

[20] S. W. Hawking, The cosmological constant is probably zero, Physics Letters B 134 , 403 (1984). [21] E. De Giuli and A. Zee, Glassy gravity, Europhysics Letters 133 , 20008 (2021). [22] S. Coleman, Fate of the false vacuum: Semiclassical the-ory, Physical Review D 15 , 2929 (1977). [23] S. Coleman, Erratum: Fate of the false vacuum: semi-classical theory, Physical Review D 16 , 1248 (1977). [24] S. K. Blau, E. I. Guendelman, and A. H. Guth, Dy-namics of false-vacuum bubbles, Physical Review D 35 ,1747 (1987). [25] E. J. Copeland, A. R. Liddle, D. H. Lyth, E. D. Stew-art, and D. Wands, False vacuum inflation with Einstein gravity, Physical Review D 49 , 6410 (1994). [26] A. Zenesini, A. Berti, R. Cominotti, C. Rogora, I. G. Moss, T. P. Billam, I. Carusotto, G. Lamporesi, A. Re-cati, and G. Ferrari, False vacuum decay via bubble for-mation in ferromagnetic superfluids, Nature Physics 20 ,558 (2024). [27] J. Braden, M. C. Johnson, H. V. Peiris, and S. Wein-furtner, Towards the cold atom analog false vacuum, Journal of High Energy Physics 2018 , 1 (2018). [28] G. Lagnese, F. M. Surace, M. Kormos, and P. Calabrese, False vacuum decay in quantum spin chains, Physical Review B 104 , L201106 (2021). [29] G. Baskaran, Metastable Kitaev Spin Liq-uids in Isotropic Quantum Heisenberg Magnets, arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.07119 https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.07119 (2023). [30] A. Sahasrabudhe, M. A. Prosnikov, T. C. Koethe, P. Stein, V. Tsurkan, A. Loidl, M. Grüninger, H. He-dayat, and P. H. M. van Loosdrecht, Chiral excitations and the intermediate-field regime in the Kitaev magnet 

α − RuCl 3, Phys. Rev. Res. 6, L022005 (2024). [31] L. D. Landau, THE THEORY OF A FERMI LIQUID, Soviet Physics Jetp-Ussr 3, 920 (1957). [32] A. Abrikosov and I. Khalatnikov, The theory of a fermi liquid (the properties of liquid 3he at low temperatures), Reports on Progress in Physics 22 , 329 (1959). [33] P. Coleman, C. Pépin, Q. Si, and R. Ramazashvili, How do fermiliquids get heavy and die?, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 13 , R723 (2001). [34] P. Coleman, Heavy fermions: Electrons at the edge of magnetism, arXiv preprint cond-mat/0612006 10.48550/arXiv.cond-mat/0612006 (2006). [35] K. Andres, J. E. Graebner, and H. R. Ott, 4f -Virtual-Bound-State Formation in Ce Al 3 at Low Temperatures, Physical Review Letters 35 , 1779 (1975). [36] G. R. Stewart, Heavy-fermion systems, Reviews of Mod-ern Physics 56 , 755 (1984). [37] P. Lee, T. Rice, J. Serene, L. Sham, and J. Wilkins, The-ories of heavy-electron systems, Comments Condens. Matter Phys.;(United Kingdom) 12 (1986). [38] P. W. Anderson, G. Baskaran, Z. Zou, and T. Hsu, Resonating-valence-bond theory of phase transitions and superconductivity in La 2CuO 4-based compounds, Physical Review Letters 58 , 2790 (1987). [39] R. B. Laughlin, Anomalous Quantum Hall Effect: An Incompressible Quantum Fluid with Fractionally Charged Excitations, Physical Review Letters 50 , 1395 (1983). [40] K. von Klitzing, T. Chakraborty, P. Kim, V. Madhavan, X. Dai, J. McIver, Y. Tokura, L. Savary, D. Smirnova, A. M. Rey, et al. , 40 years of the quantum hall effect, Nature Reviews Physics 2, 397 (2020). [41] N. Mott, Metal-insulator transitions (CRC Press, 2004). [42] N. F. MOTT, Metal-Insulator Transition, Reviews of Modern Physics 40 , 677 (1968). [43] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. Müller, Possible high Tc su-perconductivity in the Ba-La-Cu-O system, Zeitschrift für Physik B Condensed Matter 64 , 189 (1986). [44] P. A. Lee, N. Nagaosa, and X.-G. Wen, Doping a mott insulator: Physics of high-temperature superconductiv-ity, Reviews of Modern Physics 78 , 17 (2006). [45] R. Moessner and A. P. Ramirez, Geometrical frustra-tion, Physics Today 59 , 24 (2006). [46] J. Khatua, B. Sana, A. Zorko, M. Gomilšek, K. Sethu-pathi, M. R. Rao, M. Baenitz, B. Schmidt, and P. Khuntia, Experimental signatures of quantum and topological states in frustrated magnetism, Physics Re-ports 1041 , 1 (2023). [47] C. Broholm, R. Cava, S. Kivelson, D. Nocera, M. Nor-man, and T. Senthil, Quantum spin liquids, Science 367 ,eaay0668 (2020). [48] K. Yosida, Magnetic Properties of Cu-Mn Alloys, Phys-ical Review 106 , 893 (1957). [49] V. Cannella and J. A. Mydosh, Magnetic Ordering in Gold-Iron Alloys, Physical Review B 6, 4220 (1972). [50] J. A. Mydosh, Spin glasses: an experimental introduc-tion (CRC Press, 1993). [51] S. F. Edwards and P. W. Anderson, Theory of spin glasses, Journal of Physics F: Metal Physics 5, 965 (1975). [52] D. L. Stein and C. M. Newman, Spin glasses and com-plexity , Vol. 4 (Princeton University Press, 2013). [53] K. Binder and A. P. Young, Spin glasses: Experimental facts, theoretical concepts, and open questions, Reviews of Modern Physics 58 , 801 (1986). [54] J. Villain, Dynamics of spin glasses, Journal of Mag-netism and Magnetic Materials 15-18 , 105 (1980). [55] B. I. Halperin and W. M. Saslow, Hydrodynamic theory of spin waves in spin glasses and other systems with noncollinear spin orientations, Physical Review B 16 ,2154 (1977). [56] U. Jena and P. Khuntia, The nature of low-temperature spin-freezing in frustrated Kitaev magnets, Communica-tions Materials 6, 63 (2025). [57] D. Podolsky and Y. B. Kim, Halperin-Saslow modes as the origin of the low-temperature anomaly in NiGa 2S4,Physical Review B 79 , 140402 (2009). [58] T. E. Saunders and J. T. Chalker, Spin freezing in geo-metrically frustrated antiferromagnets with weak disor-der, Physical Review Letters 98 , 157201 (2007). [59] H. J. Silverstein, K. Fritsch, F. Flicker, A. M. Hal-las, J. S. Gardner, Y. Qiu, G. Ehlers, A. T. Savici, Z. Yamani, K. A. Ross, B. D. Gaulin, M. J. P. Gin-gras, J. A. M. Paddison, K. Foyevtsova, R. Valenti, F. Hawthorne, C. R. Wiebe, and H. D. Zhou, Liquid-like correlations in single-crystalline Y 2Mo 2O7: An un-conventional spin glass, Physical Review B 89 , 054433 (2014). [60] X. Hu, D. M. Pajerowski, D. Zhang, A. A. Podlesnyak, Y. Qiu, Q. Huang, H. Zhou, I. Klich, A. I. Kolesnikov, M. B. Stone, and S.-H. Lee, Freezing of a disorder in-duced spin liquid with strong quantum fluctuations, Physical Review Letters 127 , 017201 (2021). [61] S. J. Garratt and J. T. Chalker, Goldstone modes in the emergent gauge fields of a frustrated magnet, Physical 57 

Review B 101 , 024413 (2020). [62] P. Chandra, P. Coleman, and I. Ritchey, The anisotropic kagome antiferromagnet: a topological spin glass?, Journal de Physique I 3, 591 (1993). [63] I. Ritchey, P. Chandra, and P. Coleman, Spin folding in the two-dimensional heisenberg kagomé antiferromag-net, Physical Review B 47 , 15342 (1993). [64] K. B. Yogendra, T. Das, and G. Baskaran, Emer-gent glassiness in the disorder-free Kitaev model: Den-sity matrix renormalization group study on a one-dimensional ladder setting, Physical Review B 108 ,165118 (2023). [65] H. Kawamura and S. Miyashita, Phase transition of the two-dimensional Heisenberg antiferromagnet on the tri-angular lattice, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 

53 , 4138 (1984). [66] H. Kawamura, Chirality scenario of the spin-glass order-ing, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 79 , 011007 (2010). [67] L. D. Jaubert and P. C. Holdsworth, Signature of mag-netic monopole and dirac string dynamics in spin ice, Nature Physics 5, 258 (2009). [68] A. M. Samarakoon, A. Sokolowski, B. Klemke, R. Fey-erherm, M. Meissner, R. A. Borzi, F. Ye, Q. Zhang, Z. Dun, H. Zhou, T. Egami, J. N. Hallén, L. Jaubert, C. Castelnovo, R. Moessner, S. A. Grigera, and D. A. Tennant, Structural magnetic glassiness in the spin ice 

Dy 2Ti 2O7, Phys. Rev. Res. 4, 033159 (2022). [69] A. Sen and R. Moessner, Topological Spin Glass in Di-luted Spin Ice, Physical Review Letters 114 , 247207 (2015). [70] S. Syzranov and A. Ramirez, Eminuscent phase in frus-trated magnets: a challenge to quantum spin liquids, Nature Communications 13 , 2993 (2022). [71] A. S. Wills, G. S. Oakley, D. Visser, J. Frunzke, A. Harrison, and K. H. Andersen, Short-range order in the topological spin glass (D 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OD) 6 us-ing polarized neutron diffraction, Physical Review B 64 ,094436 (2001). [72] K. Fischer, Ferromagnetic modes in spin glasses and di-lute ferromagnets, Zeitschrift für Physik B Condensed Matter 39 , 37 (1980). [73] I. Klich, S.-H. Lee, and K. Iida, Glassiness and ex-otic entropy scaling induced by quantum fluctuations in a disorder-free frustrated magnet, Nature communi-cations 5, 3497 (2014). [74] A. Samarakoon, T. J. Sato, T. Chen, G.-W. Chern, J. Yang, I. Klich, R. Sinclair, H. Zhou, and S.-H. Lee, Aging, memory, and nonhierarchical energy landscape of spin jam, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 113 , 11806 (2016). [75] J. Yang, A. Samarakoon, S. Dissanayake, H. Ueda, I. Klich, K. Iida, D. Pajerowski, N. P. Butch, Q. Huang, J. R. Copley, et al. , Spin jam induced by quantum fluc-tuations in a frustrated magnet, Proceedings of the Na-tional Academy of Sciences 112 , 11519 (2015). [76] A. Samarakoon, M. Takahashi, D. Zhang, J. Yang, N. Katayama, R. Sinclair, H. Zhou, S. Diallo, G. Ehlers, D. Tennant, et al. , Scaling of Memories and Crossover in Glassy Magnets, Scientific reports 7, 12053 (2017). [77] Z. W. Wu, Y. Chen, W.-H. Wang, W. Kob, and L. Xu, Topology of vibrational modes predicts plastic events in glasses, Nature Communications 14 , 2955 (2023). [78] M. Baggioli, Topological defects reveal the plasticity of glasses, Nature Communications 14 , 2956 (2023). [79] J. Mydosh, Spin glasses—recent experiments and sys-tems, Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials 7,237 (1978). [80] P. W. Anderson, Basic notions of condensed matter physics (CRC press, 2018). [81] Y. Nambu, Axial Vector Current Conservation in Weak Interactions, Physical Review Letters 4, 380 (1960). [82] J. Goldstone, A. Salam, and S. Weinberg, Broken Sym-metries, Physical Review 127 , 965 (1962). [83] S. Weinberg, The quantum theory of fields , Vol. 2 (Cam-bridge university press, 1995). [84] P. W. Anderson, Plasmons, Gauge Invariance, and Mass, Physical Review 130 , 439 (1963). [85] P. W. Higgs, Broken Symmetries and the Masses of Gauge Bosons, Physical Review Letters 13 , 508 (1964). [86] D. Sherman, U. S. Pracht, B. Gorshunov, S. Poran, J. Jesudasan, M. Chand, P. Raychaudhuri, M. Swan-son, N. Trivedi, A. Auerbach, et al. , The higgs mode in disordered superconductors close to a quantum phase transition, Nature Physics 11 , 188 (2015). [87] R. Shimano and N. Tsuji, Higgs mode in superconduc-tors, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 11 ,103 (2020). [88] L. Pollet and N. Prokof’ev, Higgs Mode in a Two-Dimensional Superfluid, Physical Review Letters 109 ,010401 (2012). [89] M.-A. Méasson, Y. Gallais, M. Cazayous, B. Clair, P. Rodière, L. Cario, and A. Sacuto, Amplitude Higgs mode in the 2H − NbSe 2 superconductor, Physical Re-view B 89 , 060503 (2014). [90] R. Grasset, Y. Gallais, A. Sacuto, M. Cazayous, S. Mañas Valero, E. Coronado, and M.-A. Méasson, Pressure-Induced Collapse of the Charge Density Wave and Higgs Mode Visibility in 2H−TaS 2, Physical Re-view Letters 122 , 127001 (2019). [91] D. Wulferding, J. Park, T. Tohyama, S. R. Park, and C. Kim, Magnetic field control over the axial charac-ter of higgs modes in charge-density wave compounds, Nature Communications 16 , 114 (2025). [92] A. Jain, M. Krautloher, J. Porras, G. Ryu, D. Chen, D. Abernathy, J. Park, A. Ivanov, J. Chaloupka, G. Khaliullin, et al. , Higgs mode and its decay in a two-dimensional antiferromagnet, Nature Physics 13 , 633 (2017). [93] S.-M. Souliou, J. c. v. Chaloupka, G. Khaliullin, G. Ryu, A. Jain, B. J. Kim, M. Le Tacon, and B. Keimer, Ra-man Scattering from Higgs Mode Oscillations in the Two-Dimensional Antiferromagnet Ca 2RuO 4, Physical Review Letters 119 , 067201 (2017). [94] M. Puviani, L. Schwarz, X.-X. Zhang, S. Kaiser, and D. Manske, Current-assisted Raman activation of the Higgs mode in superconductors, Physical Review B 101 ,220507 (2020). [95] M. Udina, T. Cea, and L. Benfatto, Theory of coherent-oscillations generation in terahertz pump-probe spec-troscopy: From phonons to electronic collective modes, Physical Review B 100 , 165131 (2019). [96] T. E. Glier, S. Tian, M. Rerrer, L. Westphal, G. Lüllau, L. Feng, J. Dolgner, R. Haenel, M. Zonno, H. Eisaki, 

et al. , Non-equilibrium anti-Stokes Raman spectroscopy for investigating Higgs modes in superconductors, Na-ture Communications 16 , 7027 (2025). 58 

[97] G. Grüner, The dynamics of charge-density waves, Re-view of Modern Physics 60 , 1129 (1988). [98] Y. Wang, I. Petrides, G. McNamara, M. M. Hosen, S. Lei, Y.-C. Wu, J. L. Hart, H. Lv, J. Yan, D. Xiao, 

et al. , Axial Higgs mode detected by quantum pathway interference in RTe 3, Nature 606 , 896 (2022). [99] D. F. Agterberg, J. S. Davis, S. D. Edkins, E. Fradkin, D. J. Van Harlingen, S. A. Kivelson, P. A. Lee, L. Radz-ihovsky, J. M. Tranquada, and Y. Wang, The physics of pair-density waves: cuprate superconductors and be-yond, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 11 ,231 (2020). [100] R. Soto-Garrido, Y. Wang, E. Fradkin, and S. L. Cooper, Higgs modes in the pair density wave super-conducting state, Physical Review B 95 , 214502 (2017). [101] Y. Su, A. Masaki-Kato, W. Zhu, J.-X. Zhu, Y. Kamiya, and S.-Z. Lin, Stable higgs mode in anisotropic quantum magnets, Physical Review B 102 , 125102 (2020). [102] L.-J. Chang, S. Onoda, Y. Su, Y.-J. Kao, K.-D. Tsuei, Y. Yasui, K. Kakurai, and M. R. Lees, Higgs transition from a magnetic Coulomb liquid to a ferromagnet in Yb 2Ti 2O7, Nature Communications 3, 992 (2012). [103] J. Xu, O. Benton, A. T. M. N. Islam, T. Guidi, G. Ehlers, and B. Lake, Order out of a Coulomb Phase and Higgs Transition: Frustrated Transverse Interac-tions of Nd 2Zr 2O7, Physical Review Letters 124 , 097203 (2020). [104] D. Wulferding, J. Kim, M. K. Kim, Y. Yang, J. H. Lee, D. Song, D. Oh, H.-S. Kim, L. E. Chern, Y. B. Kim, et al. , Collective magnetic Higgs excitation in a pyrochlore ruthenate, npj Quantum Materials 8, 40 (2023). [105] J. Greensite and K. Matsuyama, Higgs phase as a spin glass and the transition between varieties of confine-ment, Phys. Rev. D 101 , 054508 (2020). [106] D. Ward, Higgs phase as a spin glass phase in D = 5 

dimensional SU(2) gauge-Higgs theory, Phys. Rev. D 

105 , 034516 (2022). [107] H. Casasola, C. A. Hernaski, P. R. S. Gomes, and P. F. Bienzobaz, Spontaneous symmetry breaking and frus-trated phases, Phys. Rev. E 104 , 034131 (2021). [108] H. Takagi, T. Takayama, G. Jackeli, G. Khaliullin, and S. E. Nagler, Concept and realization of Kitaev quantum spin liquids, Nature Reviews Physics 1, 264 (2019). [109] E. Lhotel, L. D. Jaubert, and P. C. Holdsworth, Frag-mentation in frustrated magnets: A review, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 201 , 710 (2020). [110] V. Juricic, L. Benfatto, A. O. Caldeira, and C. M. Smith, Dissipative dynamics of topological defects in frustrated Heisenberg spin systems, Physical Review B 

71 , 064421 (2005). [111] B. Canals, I.-A. Chioar, V.-D. Nguyen, M. Hehn, D. La-cour, F. Montaigne, A. Locatelli, T. O. Menteş, B. S. Burgos, and N. Rougemaille, Fragmentation of mag-netism in artificial kagome dipolar spin ice, Nature Com-munications 7, 11446 (2016). [112] A. Sorokin, Topological defects and critical phenomena in two-dimensional frustrated helimagnets, Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials 479 , 32 (2019). [113] C. Castelnovo, R. Moessner, and S. L. Sondhi, Magnetic monopoles in spin ice, Nature 451 , 42 (2008). [114] D. Mattis, Solvable spin systems with random interac-tions, Physics Letters A 56 , 421 (1976). [115] P. W. Anderson, Concepts in solids: lectures on the the-ory of solids , Vol. 58 (World Scientific, 1997). [116] I. Aleksandr and A. Khinchin, Mathematical founda-tions of statistical mechanics (Courier Corporation, 1949). [117] R. G. Palmer, Broken ergodicity, Advances in Physics 

31 , 669 (1982). [118] M. Mézard, G. Parisi, and M. A. Virasoro, Spin glass theory and beyond: An Introduction to the Replica Method and Its Applications , Vol. 9 (World Scientific Publishing Company, 1987). [119] D. S. Fisher and D. A. Huse, Nonequilibrium dynamics of spin glasses, Physical Review B 38 , 373 (1988). [120] R. Nandkishore and D. A. Huse, Many-Body Localiza-tion and Thermalization in Quantum Statistical Me-chanics, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 6, 15 (2015). [121] D. M. Basko, I. L. Aleiner, and B. L. Altshuler, Metal-insulator transition in a weakly interacting many-electron system with localized single-particle states, An-nals of physics 321 , 1126 (2006). [122] D. Bluvstein, A. Omran, H. Levine, A. Keesling, G. Se-meghini, S. Ebadi, T. T. Wang, A. A. Michailidis, N. Maskara, W. W. Ho, et al. , Controlling quantum many-body dynamics in driven Rydberg atom arrays, Science 371 , 1355 (2021). [123] V. L. Ginzburg and L. D. Landau, On the theory of superconductivity, in On superconductivity and super-fluidity: a scientific autobiography (Springer, 2009) pp. 113–137. [124] G. Venkataraman, D. Sahoo, and V. Balakrishnan, Be-yond the crystalline state: an emerging perspective ,Vol. 84 (Springer Science & Business Media, 2012). [125] C. J. Turner, A. A. Michailidis, D. A. Abanin, M. Ser-byn, and Z. Papić, Weak ergodicity breaking from quan-tum many-body scars, Nature Physics 14 , 745 (2018). [126] V. Khemani, A. Lazarides, R. Moessner, and S. L. Sondhi, Phase Structure of Driven Quantum Systems, Physical Review Letters 116 , 250401 (2016). [127] W. H. Zurek, Cosmological experiments in superfluid helium?, Nature 317 , 505 (1985). [128] M. E. Peskin, An Introduction to quantum field theory 

(CRC press, 2018). [129] V. Dotsenko, An introduction to the theory of spin glasses and neural networks , Vol. 54 (World Scientific, 1995). [130] A. Arrott, Neutron Diffraction Studies of Pd, Ni, FeMn, and Cu(Mn) Single Crystals, Journal of Applied Physics 

36 , 1093 (1965). [131] U. Gonser, R. Grant, C. Meechan, A. Muir Jr, and H. Wiedersich, Magnetic Transitions in Dilute Solutions of Iron in Gold and Copper, Journal of Applied Physics 

36 , 2124 (1965). [132] R. J. Borg, Descriptive Model for the Magnetic Behavior of Au-Fe Alloys, Physical Review B 1, 349 (1970). [133] J. Kondo, Resistance minimum in dilute magnetic al-loys, Progress of theoretical physics 32 , 37 (1964). [134] M. A. Ruderman and C. Kittel, Indirect Exchange Cou-pling of Nuclear Magnetic Moments by Conduction Electrons, Physocal Review 96 , 99 (1954). [135] T. Kasuya, A theory of metallic ferro-and antiferromag-netism on Zener’s model, Progress of theoretical physics 

16 , 45 (1956). 59 

[136] H. Yatsuzuka, Y. Haraguchi, A. Matsuo, K. Kindo, and H. A. Katori, Spin-glass transition in the spin-orbit-entangled Jeff = 0 Mott insulating double-perovskite ruthenate, Scientific Reports 12 , 2429 (2022). [137] J. Tholence, Spin-glass versus”blocking”in dilute Eu xSr 1−xS, Journal of Applied Physics 50 , 7369 (1979). [138] H. Maletta, Magnetic ordering in Eu xSr 1−xS, a diluted Heisenberg system with competing interactions, Journal of Applied physics 53 , 2185 (1982). [139] U. Köbler and K. Fischer, The impact of fourth-order exchange interactions on the critical temperatures of Eu xSr 1−xS and Eu xSr 1−xTe, Journal of Physics: Con-densed Matter 13 , 123 (2001). [140] Y. Nagaoka and H. Fukuyama, Anderson Localization: Proceedings of the Fourth Taniguchi International Sym-posium, Sanda-shi, Japan, November 3-8, 1981 , Vol. 39 (Springer Science & Business Media, 2012). [141] D. L. Stein, Spin glasses, Scientific American 261 , 52 (1989). [142] A. K. Hartmann and A. P. Young, Lower critical dimen-sion of Ising spin glasses, Physical Review B 64 , 180404 (2001). [143] A. T. Ogielski, Dynamics of three-dimensional Ising spin glasses in thermal equilibrium, Physical Review B 32 ,7384 (1985). [144] A. T. Ogielski and I. Morgenstern, Critical behavior of three-dimensional Ising spin-glass model, Physical Re-view Letters 54 , 928 (1985). [145] N. Kawashima and A. P. Young, Phase transition in the three-dimensional ±J Ising spin glass, Physical Review B 53 , R484 (1996). [146] D. Sherrington and S. Kirkpatrick, Solvable Model of a Spin-Glass, Physical Review Letters 35 , 1792 (1975). [147] P. Reed, High temperature series for the Heisenberg spin-glass, Physics Letters A 68 , 473 (1978). [148] A. Maiorano and G. Parisi, Support for the value 5/2 for the spin glass lower critical dimension at zero magnetic field, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 

115 , 5129 (2018). [149] G. Parisi, Infinite number of order parameters for spin-glasses, Physical Review Letters 43 , 1754 (1979). [150] G. Parisi, The order parameter for spin glasses: a func-tion on the interval 0-1, Journal of Physics A: Mathe-matical and General 13 , 1101 (1980). [151] P. W. Anderson, More is different: broken symmetry and the nature of the hierarchical structure of science., Science 177 , 393 (1972). [152] H. Rieger, Quantum spin glasses (Springer, 2005) pp. 69–99. [153] I. Dzyaloshinsk and G. Volovik, On the concept of lo-cal invariance in the theory of spin glasses, Journal de Physique 39 , 693 (1978). [154] H. Takayama, A contribution to the theory of spin waves in a metallic spin glass, Journal of Physics F: Metal Physics 8, 2417 (1978). [155] W. Y. Ching, D. L. Huber, and K. M. Leung, Spin-wave modes and low-temperature specific heat in the spin-glass Eu xSr 1−xS : x = 0 .54and0 .40 , Physical Review B 

21 , 3708 (1980). [156] P. W. Anderson, Absence of Diffusion in Certain Ran-dom Lattices, Physical Review 109 , 1492 (1958). [157] C. Chamon, Quantum Glassiness in Strongly Correlated Clean Systems: An Example of Topological Overprotec-tion, Physical Review Letters 94 , 040402 (2005). [158] J. P. Garrahan, P. Sollich, and C. Toninelli, Kineti-cally constrained models, Dynamical heterogeneities in glasses, colloids, and granular media 150 , 111 (2011). [159] M. Pretko, X. Chen, and Y. You, Fracton phases of matter, International Journal of Modern Physics A 35 ,2030003 (2020). [160] V. Khemani, M. Hermele, and R. Nandkishore, Local-ization from Hilbert space shattering: From theory to physical realizations, Physical Review B 101 , 174204 (2020). [161] C. Castelnovo, S. Trebst, and M. Troyer, Topolog-ical order and quantum criticality, arXiv preprint arXiv:0912.3272 (2009). [162] A. Smith, J. Knolle, D. L. Kovrizhin, and R. Moess-ner, Disorder-Free Localization, Physical Review Let-ters 118 , 266601 (2017). [163] A. Prem, J. Haah, and R. Nandkishore, Glassy quan-tum dynamics in translation invariant fracton models, Physical Review B 95 , 155133 (2017). [164] P. W. Anderson, Infrared Catastrophe in Fermi Gases with Local Scattering Potentials, Physical Review Let-ters 18 , 1049 (1967). [165] L. Campos Venuti and P. Zanardi, Quantum Critical Scaling of the Geometric Tensors, Physical Review Let-ters 99 , 095701 (2007). [166] S.-J. Gu, Fidelity approach to quantum phase transi-tions, International Journal of Modern Physics B 24 ,4371 (2010). [167] A. Polkovnikov, K. Sengupta, A. Silva, and M. Ven-galattore, Colloquium: Nonequilibrium dynamics of closed interacting quantum systems, Review of Modern Physics 83 , 863 (2011). [168] P. Sala, T. Rakovszky, R. Verresen, M. Knap, and F. Pollmann, Ergodicity breaking arising from hilbert space fragmentation in dipole-conserving hamiltonians, Physical Review X 10 , 011047 (2020). [169] S. Moudgalya, B. A. Bernevig, and N. Regnault, Quan-tum many-body scars and Hilbert space fragmentation: A review of exact results, Reports on Progress in Physics 

85 , 086501 (2022). [170] K. Lee, A. Pal, and H. J. Changlani, Frustration-induced emergent Hilbert space fragmentation, Physical Review B 103 , 235133 (2021). [171] T. Grover and M. P. Fisher, Quantum disentangled liq-uids, Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Ex-periment 2014 , P10010 (2014). [172] B. I. Halperin and P. C. Hohenberg, Hydrodynamic Theory of Spin Waves, Physical Review 188 , 898 (1969). [173] W. M. Saslow, Macroscopic spin dynamics of spin-glasses with remanence and anisotropy, Physical Review B 22 , 1174 (1980). [174] C. L. Henley, H. Sompolinsky, and B. I. Halperin, Spin-resonance frequencies in spin-glasses with random anisotropies, Physical Review B 25 , 5849 (1982). [175] A. Andreev and V. Marchenko, Macroscopic theory of spin waves, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz 70 , 1522 (1976). [176] S. Ginzburg, Microscopic theory of spin waves in spin glasses, Sov. Phys. JETP, 48 , 756 (1978). [177] T. Bilitewski, M. E. Zhitomirsky, and R. Moessner, Dy-namics and energy landscape of the jammed spin liquid, Physical Review B 99 , 054416 (2019). [178] J. A. Mydosh, Spin glasses: redux: an updated experi-mental/materials survey, Reports on Progress in Physics 60 

78 , 052501 (2015). [179] K. Binder and A. P. Young, Spin glasses: Experimental facts, theoretical concepts, and open questions, Reviews of Modern physics 58 , 801 (1986). [180] P. Khuntia, S. Manni, F. R. Foronda, T. Lancaster, S. J. Blundell, P. Gegenwart, and M. Baenitz, Local mag-netism and spin dynamics of the frustrated honeycomb rhodate Li 2RhO 3, Physical Review B 96 , 094432 (2017). [181] O. V. Lounasmaa and E. Thuneberg, Vortices in ro-tating superfluid 3he, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 96 , 7760 (1999). [182] D. S. Fisher and D. A. Huse, Ordered Phase of Short-Range Ising Spin-Glasses, Physical Review Letters 56 ,1601 (1986). [183] A. P. Ramirez, G. P. Espinosa, and A. S. Cooper, Strong frustration and dilution-enhanced order in a quasi-2D spin glass, Physical Review Letters 64 , 2070 (1990). [184] D. L. Martin, Specific heat of spin-glass CuMn below 3 K, Physical Review B 20 , 368 (1979). [185] K. Mirza and J. Loram, The magnetic specific heat of spin-glass and ferromagnetic AuFe alloys between 2 and 300K, Journal of Physics F: Metal Physics 15 , 439 (1985). [186] Y. Kimishima, M. Kobayashi, R.-i. Seto, and Y. Miyako, The specific heat of spin glass in ptmn dilute alloys, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 43 , 1577 (1977). [187] Y. Okamoto, M. Nohara, H. Aruga-Katori, and H. Tak-agi, Spin-Liquid State in the S = 1 /2 Hyperkagome Antiferromagnet Na 4Ir 3O8, Physical Review Letters 99 ,137207 (2007). [188] A. Ramirez, G. Espinosa, and A. Cooper, Strong frus-tration and dilution-enhanced order in a quasi-2D spin glass, Physical Review Letters 64 , 2070 (1990). [189] S. Nakatsuji, Y. Nambu, H. Tonomura, O. Sakai, S. Jonas, C. Broholm, H. Tsunetsugu, Y. Qiu, and Y. Maeno, Spin Disorder on a Triangular Lattice, Sci-ence 309 , 1697 (2005). [190] B. Roy, A. Pandey, Q. Zhang, T. W. Heitmann, D. Vaknin, D. C. Johnston, and Y. Furukawa, Experi-mental evidence of a collinear antiferromagnetic order-ing in the frustrated CoAl 2O4 spinel, Physical Review B 88 , 174415 (2013). [191] J. Greedan, M. Sato, X. Yan, and F. Razavi, Spin-glass-like behavior in Y 2Mo 2O7, a concentrated, crystalline system with negligible apparent disorder, Solid State Communications 59 , 895 (1986). [192] K. Mitsumoto, C. Hotta, and H. Yoshino, Spin-Orbital Glass Transition in a Model of a Frustrated Pyrochlore Magnet without Quenched Disorder, Physical Review Letters 124 , 087201 (2020). [193] A. P. Ramirez, B. Hessen, and M. Winklemann, En-tropy Balance and Evidence for Local Spin Singlets in a Kagomé-Like Magnet, Physical Review Letters 84 , 2957 (2000). [194] S. Weinberg, Approximate Symmetries and Pseudo-Goldstone Bosons, Physical Review Letters 29 , 1698 (1972). [195] L. V. Delacrétaz, B. Goutéraux, and V. Ziogas, Damp-ing of Pseudo-Goldstone Fields, Physical Review Letters 

128 , 141601 (2022). [196] J. G. Rau, P. A. McClarty, and R. Moessner, Pseudo-Goldstone Gaps and Order-by-Quantum Disorder in Frustrated Magnets, Physical Review Letters 121 ,237201 (2018). [197] M. Gohlke, L. E. Chern, H.-Y. Kee, and Y. B. Kim, Emergence of nematic paramagnet via quantum order-by-disorder and pseudo-Goldstone modes in Kitaev magnets, Physical Review Research 2, 043023 (2020). [198] G. Ecker, Chiral symmetry, in Broken Symmetries: Pro-ceedings of the 37. Internationale Universitätswochen für Kern-und Teilchenphysik, Schladming, Austria, February 28-March 7, 1998 (Springer, 2007) pp. 83– 129. [199] A. Kocić, J. B. Kogut, and M.-P. Lombardo, Universal properties of chiral symmetry breaking, Nuclear Physics B 398 , 376 (1993). [200] A. J. Leggett, Quantum liquids: Bose condensation and Cooper pairing in condensed-matter systems (Oxford university press, 2006). [201] Y. J. Uemura, A. Keren, K. Kojima, L. P. Le, G. M. Luke, W. D. Wu, Y. Ajiro, T. Asano, Y. Kuriyama, M. Mekata, H. Kikuchi, and K. Kakurai, Spin Fluctuations in Frustrated Kagomé Lattice Sys-tem Sr Cr 8Ga 4O19 Studied by Muon Spin Relaxation, Physical Review Letters 73 , 3306 (1994). [202] I. Živković, V. Favre, C. Salazar Mejia, H. O. Jeschke, A. Magrez, B. Dabholkar, V. Noculak, R. S. Freitas, M. Jeong, N. G. Hegde, L. Testa, P. Babkevich, Y. Su, P. Manuel, H. Luetkens, C. Baines, P. J. Baker, J. Wos-nitza, O. Zaharko, Y. Iqbal, J. Reuther, and H. M. Rønnow, Magnetic Field Induced Quantum Spin Liquid in the Two Coupled Trillium Lattices of K2Ni 2(SO 4)3,Physical Review Letters 127 , 157204 (2021). [203] J. Shen, X. Xu, M. He, Y. Liu, Y. Han, and Z. Qu, Spin freezing in the van der Waals material Mn 2Ga 2S5,Chinese Physics B 31 , 067105 (2022). [204] K. Li, S. Jin, J. Guo, Y. Xu, Y. Su, E. Feng, Y. Liu, S. Zhou, T. Ying, S. Li, Z. Wang, G. Chen, and X. Chen, Double-peak specific heat and spin freezing in the spin-2 triangular lattice antiferromagnet FeAl 2Se 4, Physical Review B 99 , 054421 (2019). [205] S. Bhattacharjee, V. B. Shenoy, and T. Senthil, Possible ferro-spin nematic order in NiGa 2S4, Physical Review B 

74 , 092406 (2006). [206] E. M. Stoudenmire, S. Trebst, and L. Balents, Quadrupolar correlations and spin freezing in S = 1 

triangular lattice antiferromagnets, Physical Review B 

79 , 214436 (2009). [207] H. Tsunetsugu and M. Arikawa, Spin nematic phase in s= 1 triangular antiferromagnets, Journal of the Physi-cal Society of Japan 75 , 083701 (2006). [208] H. Takeya, K. Ishida, K. Kitagawa, Y. Ihara, K. Onuma, Y. Maeno, Y. Nambu, S. Nakatsuji, D. E. MacLaugh-lin, A. Koda, and R. Kadono, Spin dynamics and spin freezing behavior in the two-dimensional antiferromag-net NiGa 2S4 revealed by Ga-NMR, NQR and μSR mea-surements, Physical Review B 77 , 054429 (2008). [209] P. W. Anderson, B. I. Halperin, and C. M. Varma, Anomalous low-temperature thermal properties of glasses and spin glasses, Philosophical Magazine 25 , 1 (1972). [210] C. Piyakulworawat, A. Thennakoon, J. Yang, H. Yoshizawa, D. Ueta, T. J. Sato, K. Sheng, W.-T. Chen, W.-W. Pai, K. Matan, and S.-H. Lee, Zero-point entropies of spin-jam and spin-glass states in a frustrated magnet, Physical Review B 109 , 104420 (2024). 61 

[211] S. Edwards and F. Tanaka, The ground state of a spin glass, Journal of Physics F: Metal Physics 10 , 2471 (1980). [212] F. Tanaka, Ground-state entropy of the infinite-range model of a spin glass, Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 13 , L951 (1980). [213] J. A. Quilliam, C. G. A. Mugford, A. Gomez, S. W. Kycia, and J. B. Kycia, Specific Heat of the Dilute Ising Magnet LiHo xY1−xF4, Physical Review Letters 

98 , 037203 (2007). [214] A. C. Shockley, F. Bert, J.-C. Orain, Y. Okamoto, and P. Mendels, Frozen State and Spin Liquid Physics in 

Na 4Ir 3O8: An NMR Study, Physical Review Letters 

115 , 047201 (2015). [215] E. Fukushima, Experimental pulse NMR: a nuts and bolts approach (CRC press, 2018). [216] A. Abragam, The principles of nuclear magnetism , 32 (Oxford university press, 1961). [217] P. Khuntia, Novel magnetism and spin dynamics of strongly correlated electron systems: Microscopic in-sights, Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials 

489 , 165435 (2019). [218] C.-J. Huang, X. Wang, Z. Wang, and G. Chen, Emer-gent Halperin-Saslow mode, gauge glass and quenched disorders in quantum Ising magnet TmMgGaO4, In-ternational Journal of Modern Physics B 38 , 2450040 (2024). [219] X. Zong, A. Niazi, F. Borsa, X. Ma, and D. C. Johnston, Structure, magnetization, and NMR studies of the spin-glass compound (Li xV1−x)3BO 5 (x ≈ 0.40 and 0.33), Physical Review B 76 , 054452 (2007). [220] K. Fischer, On the electrical resistivity of spin glasses, Zeitschrift für Physik B Condensed Matter 34 , 45 (1979). [221] G. Chen and L. Balents, Spin-orbit effects in Na 4Ir 3O8:A hyper-kagome lattice antiferromagnet, Physical Re-view B 78 , 094403 (2008). [222] M. R. Norman, Colloquium: Herbertsmithite and the search for the quantum spin liquid, Reviews of Modern Physics 88 , 041002 (2016). [223] S.-H. Lee, C. Broholm, G. Aeppli, A. Ramirez, T. Per-ring, C. Carlile, M. Adams, T. Jones, and B. Hessen, Spin-glass and non-spin-glass features of a geometrically frustratedmagnet, Europhysics Letters 35 , 127 (1996). [224] A. T. Boothroyd, Principles of Neutron Scattering from Condensed Matter (Oxford University Press, 2020). [225] S. W. Lovesey, Theory of neutron scattering from con-densed matter (Oxford science publication, 1984). [226] R. Coldea, D. A. Tennant, A. M. Tsvelik, and Z. Tyl-czynski, Experimental Realization of a 2D Fractional Quantum Spin Liquid, Physical Review Letters 86 , 1335 (2001). [227] T.-H. Han, J. S. Helton, S. Chu, D. G. Nocera, J. A. Rodriguez-Rivera, C. Broholm, and Y. S. Lee, Fraction-alized excitations in the spin-liquid state of a kagome-lattice antiferromagnet, Nature 492 , 406 (2012). [228] A. Banerjee, J. Yan, J. Knolle, C. A. Bridges, M. B. Stone, M. D. Lumsden, D. G. Mandrus, D. A. Tennant, R. Moessner, and S. E. Nagler, Neutron scattering in the proximate quantum spin liquid α-RuCl 3, Science 356 ,1055 (2017). [229] G. L. Squires, Introduction to the Theory of Thermal Neutron Scattering (Courier Corporation, 1996). [230] M. Kofu, R. Watanuki, T. Sakakibara, S. Ohira-Kawamura, K. Nakajima, M. Matsuura, T. Ueki, K. Akutsu, and O. Yamamuro, Spin glass behavior and magnetic boson peak in a structural glass of a magnetic ionic liquid, Scientific Reports 11 , 12098 (2021). [231] M. Watanabe, N. Kurita, H. Tanaka, W. Ueno, K. Mat-sui, and T. Goto, Valence-bond-glass state with a singlet gap in the spin- 12 square-lattice random J1−J2 Heisen-berg antiferromagnet Sr 2CuTe 1−xWxO6, Physical Re-view B 98 , 054422 (2018). [232] J. S. Helton, K. Matan, M. P. Shores, E. A. Nytko, B. M. Bartlett, Y. Yoshida, Y. Takano, A. Suslov, Y. Qiu, J.-H. Chung, D. G. Nocera, and Y. S. Lee, Spin Dynam-ics of the Spin-1/2 Kagome Lattice Antiferromagnet 

ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2, Physical Review Letters 98 , 107204 (2007). [233] C. Broholm, G. Aeppli, G. P. Espinosa, and A. S. Cooper, Antiferromagnetic fluctuations and short-range order in a Kagomé lattice, Physical Review Letters 65 ,3173 (1990). [234] M. Kofu, S. Ohira-Kawamura, N. Murai, R. Ishii, D. Hi-rai, H. Arima, and K. Funakoshi, Magnetic boson peak in classical spin glasses, Physical Review Research 6,013006 (2024). [235] Y. Uemura, A. Keren, K. Kojima, L. Le, G. Luke, W. Wu, Y. Ajiro, T. Asano, Y. Kuriyama, M. Mekata, 

et al. , Spin fluctuations in frustrated kagomé lattice sys-tem sr cr 8 ga 4 o 19 studied by muon spin relaxation, Physical review letters 73 , 3306 (1994). [236] F. Scheck, Muon physics, Physics Reports 44 , 187 (1978). [237] S. J. Blundell, S. Blundell, R. De Renzi, T. Lancaster, and F. L. Pratt, Muon spectroscopy: an introduction 

(Oxford University Press, 2021). [238] S. Blundell, Spin-polarized muons in condensed matter physics, Contemporary Physics 40 , 175 (1999). [239] S. J. Blundell, Muon-spin rotation studies of electronic properties of molecular conductors and superconduc-tors, Chemical reviews 104 , 5717 (2004). [240] A. Le Yaouanc and P. D. De Reotier, Muon spin ro-tation, relaxation, and resonance: applications to con-densed matter , 147 (OUP Oxford, 2011). [241] A. D. Hillier, S. J. Blundell, I. McKenzie, I. Umegaki, L. Shu, J. A. Wright, T. Prokscha, F. Bert, K. Shimo-mura, A. Berlie, et al. , Muon spin spectroscopy, Nature Reviews Methods Primers 2, 4 (2022). [242] L. Nuccio, L. Schulz, and A. Drew, Muon spin spec-troscopy: magnetism, soft matter and the bridge be-tween the two, Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics 

47 , 473001 (2014). [243] A. Yaouanc and P. Dalmas de Réotier, Muon Spin Rota-tion, Relaxation, and Resonance: Applications to Con-densed Matter (Oxford University Press, 2011). [244] C. Lacroix, P. Mendels, and F. Mila, Introduction to frustrated magnetism: materials, experiments, theory ,Vol. 164 (Springer Science & Business Media, 2011). [245] A. Amato, Heavy-fermion systems studied by μsr tech-nique, Reviews of Modern Physics 69 , 1119 (1997). [246] J. Sonier, Muon spin rotation/relaxation, Resonance brochure (2002). [247] A. Harrison, K. Kojima, A. Wills, Y. Fudamato, M. Larkin, G. Luke, B. Nachumi, Y. Uemura, D. Visser, and J. S. Lord, μSR studies of the kagomé antiferro-magnet (H 3O)Fe 3(OH) 6(SO 4)2, Physica B: Condensed 62 

Matter 289 , 217 (2000). [248] T. Lancaster, F. Xiao, B. Huddart, R. Williams, F. Pratt, S. Blundell, S. Clark, R. Scheuermann, T. Goko, S. Ward, et al. , Quantum magnetism in molec-ular spin ladders probed with muon-spin spectroscopy, New Journal of Physics 20 , 103002 (2018). [249] B. M. Huddart, A. Hernández-Melián, T. J. Hicken, M. Gomilšek, Z. Hawkhead, S. Clark, F. Pratt, and T. Lancaster, MuFinder: A program to determine and analyse muon stopping sites, Computer Physics Com-munications 280 , 108488 (2022). [250] F. R. Foronda, F. Lang, J. S. Möller, T. Lancaster, A. T. Boothroyd, F. L. Pratt, S. R. Giblin, D. Prabhakaran, and S. J. Blundell, Anisotropic Local Modification of Crystal Field Levels in Pr-Based Pyrochlores: A Muon-Induced Effect Modeled Using Density Functional The-ory, Physical Review Letters 114 , 017602 (2015). [251] P. Mendels, F. Bert, M. A. de Vries, A. Olariu, A. Har-rison, F. Duc, J. C. Trombe, J. S. Lord, A. Amato, and C. Baines, Quantum Magnetism in the Paratacamite Family: Towards an Ideal Kagomé Lattice, Physical Re-view Letters 98 , 077204 (2007). [252] P. D. De Réotier and A. Yaouanc, Muon spin rota-tion and relaxation in magnetic materials, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 9, 9113 (1997). [253] C. P. Slichter, Principles of magnetic resonance , Vol. 1 (Springer Science & Business Media, 2013). [254] M. Mézard, G. Parisi, M. A. Virasoro, and D. J. Thou-less, Spin glass theory and beyond (1988). [255] R. Rammal, G. Toulouse, and M. A. Virasoro, Ultra-metricity for physicists, Rev. Mod. Phys. 58 , 765 (1986). [256] Y. J. Uemura, T. Yamazaki, D. R. Harshman, M. Senba, and E. J. Ansaldo, Muon-spin relaxation in AuFe and CuMn spin glasses, Physical Review B 31 , 546 (1985). [257] M. Palassini and A. P. Young, Nature of the Spin Glass State, Physical Review Letters 85 , 3017 (2000). [258] P. Reed, Spin-wave stiffness in the Heisenberg spin glass, Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 12 , L475 (1979). [259] D. Bloyet, E. Varoquaux, C. Vibet, O. Avenel, and M. P. Berglund, NMR Studies of Spin-Glass Dynamics, Phys-ical Review Letters 40 , 250 (1978). [260] M. Mekata, Kagome: The Story of the Basketweave Lat-tice, Physics Today 56 , 12 (2003). [261] K. Husimi and I. Syôzi, The Statistics of Honey-comb and Triangular Lattice. I, Progress of Theoretical Physics 5, 177 (1950). [262] I. Syôzi, Statistics of Kagomé Lattice, Progress of The-oretical Physics 6, 306 (1951). [263] S. Yan, D. A. Huse, and S. R. White, Spin-Liquid Ground State of the S= 1/2 Kagome Heisenberg An-tiferromagnet, Science 332 , 1173 (2011). [264] A. Mielke, Ferromagnetic ground states for the Hubbard model on line graphs, Journal of Physics A: Mathemat-ical and General 24 , L73 (1991). [265] D. Leykam, A. Andreanov, and S. Flach, Artificial flat band systems: from lattice models to experiments, Ad-vances in Physics: X 3, 1473052 (2018). [266] J.-X. Yin, B. Lian, and M. Z. Hasan, Topological kagome magnets and superconductors, Nature 612 , 647 (2022). [267] M. Kang, L. Ye, S. Fang, J.-S. You, A. Levitan, M. Han, J. I. Facio, C. Jozwiak, A. Bostwick, E. Rotenberg, 

et al. , Dirac fermions and flat bands in the ideal kagome metal FeSn, Nature materials 19 , 163 (2020). [268] E. Tang, J.-W. Mei, and X.-G. Wen, High-temperature fractional quantum hall states, Physical Review Letters 

106 , 236802 (2011). [269] I. S. Hagemann, Q. Huang, X. P. A. Gao, A. P. Ramirez, and R. J. Cava, Geometric Magnetic Frus-tration in Ba 2Sn 2Ga 3ZnCr 7O22 : A Two-Dimensional Spinel Based Kagomé Lattice, Physical Review Letters 

86 , 894 (2001). [270] V. Pokrovsky, Properties of ordered, continuously de-generate systems, Advances in Physics 28 , 595 (1979). [271] J. M. Kosterlitz and D. J. Thouless, Ordering, metasta-bility and phase transitions in two-dimensional systems, Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 6, 1181 (1973). [272] P. Dalmas de Réotier and A. Yaouanc, Power-law dy-namics in the spin-liquid kagome lattices SrCr 8Ga 4O19 

and ZnCu 3(OH) 6Cl 2, Physical Review B 105 , L241104 (2022). [273] A. Chubukov, Order from disorder in a kagomé antifer-romagnet, Physical Review Letters 69 , 832 (1992). [274] S.-H. Lee, C. Broholm, W. Ratcliff, G. Gasparovic, Q. Huang, T. Kim, and S.-W. Cheong, Emergent ex-citations in a geometrically frustrated magnet, Nature 

418 , 856 (2002). [275] M. Jeong, F. Bert, P. Mendels, F. Duc, J. C. Trombe, M. A. de Vries, and A. Harrison, Field-Induced Freez-ing of a Quantum Spin Liquid on the Kagome Lattice, Physical Review Letters 107 , 237201 (2011). [276] A. Zorko, S. Nellutla, J. Van Tol, L. Brunel, F. Bert, F. Duc, J.-C. Trombe, M. De Vries, . f. A. Harrison, and P. Mendels, Dzyaloshinsky-moriya anisotropy in the spin-1/2 kagome compound zncu 3 (oh) 6 cl 2, Physical review letters 101 , 026405 (2008). [277] S. El Shawish, O. Cepas, and S. Miyashita, Electron spin resonance in s= 1 2 antiferromagnets at high tem-perature, Physical Review B—Condensed Matter and Materials Physics 81 , 224421 (2010). [278] O. Cépas, C. M. Fong, P. W. Leung, and C. Lhuillier, Quantum phase transition induced by dzyaloshinskii-moriya interactions in the kagome antiferromagnet, Physical Review B 78 , 140405 (2008). [279] J. Majzlan, R. Stevens, J. Boerio-Goates, B. Wood-field, A. Navrotsky, P. Burns, M. Crawford, and T. Amos, Thermodynamic properties, low-temperature heat-capacity anomalies, and single-crystal X-ray re-finement of hydronium jarosite,(H 3O)Fe 3(SO 4)2(OH) 6,Physics and Chemistry of Minerals 31 , 518 (2004). [280] A. Wills, A. Harrison, S. Mentink, T. Mason, and Z. Tun, Magnetic correlations in deuteronium jarosite, a model S= 5/2 Kagomé antiferromagnet, Europhysics Letters 42 , 325 (1998). [281] M. Fujihala, X.-G. Zheng, H. Morodomi, T. Kawae, A. Matsuo, K. Kindo, and I. Watanabe, Unconven-tional spin freezing in the highly two-dimensional spin-1 2 kagome antiferromagnet Cd 2Cu 3(OH) 6(SO 4)24H 2O: Evidence of partial order and coexisting spin singlet state on a distorted kagome lattice, Physical Review B 

89 , 100401 (2014). [282] J. Yang, A. M. Samarakoon, K. W. Hong, J. R. Copley, Q. Huang, A. Tennant, T. J. Sato, and S.-H. Lee, Glassy Behavior and Isolated Spin Dimers in a New Frustrated Magnet BaCr 9pGa 12 −9pO19 , Journal of the Physical So-ciety of Japan 85 , 094712 (2016). 63 

[283] I. Hagemann, Q. Huang, X. Gao, A. Ramirez, and R. Cava, Geometric magnetic frustration in Ba 2Sn 2Ga 3ZnCr 7O22 : A two-dimensional spinel based Kagomé lattice, Physical review letters 86 , 894 (2001). [284] R. A. Murphy, L. E. Darago, M. E. Ziebel, E. A. Pe-terson, E. W. Zaia, M. W. Mara, D. Lussier, E. O. Ve-lasquez, D. K. Shuh, J. J. Urban, et al. , Exchange bias in a layered metal-organic topological spin glass, ACS central science 7, 1317 (2021). [285] Y. Nambu, S. Nakatsuji, and Y. Maeno, Coherent be-havior and nonmagnetic impurity effects of spin disor-dered state in NiGa 2S4, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 75 , 043711 (2006). [286] S. Nakatsuji, H. Tonomura, K. Onuma, Y. Nambu, O. Sakai, Y. Maeno, R. T. Macaluso, and J. Y. Chan, Spin Disorder and Order in Quasi-2D Triangu-lar Heisenberg Antiferromagnets: Comparative Study of FeGa 2S4, Fe 2Ga 2S5, and NiGa 2S4, Physical Review Letters 99 , 157203 (2007). [287] G. C. Tewari, H. S. Kousar, D. Srivastava, and M. Karppinen, Signature of elementary excitations in Se-substituted layered triangular-lattice antiferromag-net CuCrS 2, Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Ma-terials 590 , 171688 (2024). [288] M. A. Gîrţu, C. M. Wynn, W. Fujita, K. Awaga, and A. J. Epstein, Glassiness and canted antiferro-magnetism in three geometrically frustrated triangular quantum Heisenberg antiferromagnets with additional Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction, Physical Review B 

61 , 4117 (2000). [289] Z. Ma, J. Wang, Z.-Y. Dong, J. Zhang, S. Li, S.-H. Zheng, Y. Yu, W. Wang, L. Che, K. Ran, S. Bao, Z. Cai, P. Čermák, A. Schneidewind, S. Yano, J. S. Gardner, X. Lu, S.-L. Yu, J.-M. Liu, S. Li, J.-X. Li, and J. Wen, Spin-Glass Ground State in a Triangular-Lattice Compound YbZnGaO 4, Physical Review Letters 

120 , 087201 (2018). [290] B. R. Ortiz, P. M. Sarte, A. H. Avidor, A. Hay, E. Ken-ney, A. I. Kolesnikov, D. M. Pajerowski, A. A. Aczel, K. M. Taddei, C. M. Brown, et al. , Quantum disordered ground state in the triangular-lattice magnet NaRuO 2,Nature Physics 19 , 943 (2023). [291] G. Bastien, M. Roslova, M. H. Haghighi, K. Mehlawat, J. Hunger, A. Isaeva, T. Doert, M. Vojta, B. Büch-ner, and A. U. B. Wolter, Spin-glass state and reversed magnetic anisotropy induced by Cr doping in the Ki-taev magnet α−RuCl 3, Physical Review B 99 , 214410 (2019). [292] S. Manni, Y. Tokiwa, and P. Gegenwart, Effect of nonmagnetic dilution in the honeycomb-lattice iridates 

Na 2IrO 3 and Li 2IrO 3, Physical Review B 89 , 241102 (2014). [293] K. Mehlawat, G. Sharma, and Y. Singh, Fragile mag-netic order in the honeycomb lattice Iridate Na 2IrO 3

revealed by magnetic impurity doping, Physical Review B 92 , 134412 (2015). [294] Y. Haraguchi, A. Matsuo, K. Kindo, and H. A. Ka-tori, Quantum paramagnetism in the hyperhoneycomb Kitaev magnet β−ZnIrO 3, Physcial Review Matererials 

6, L021401 (2022). [295] A. Zubtsovskii, Topotactic synthesis and characteriza-tion of new Kitaev iridates (Universität Augsburg, 2022, 2022). [296] L. Clark, G. J. Nilsen, E. Kermarrec, G. Ehlers, K. S. Knight, A. Harrison, J. P. Attfield, and B. D. Gaulin, From Spin Glass to Quantum Spin Liquid Ground States in Molybdate Pyrochlores, Physical Review Let-ters 113 , 117201 (2014). [297] M. Ito, Y. Yasui, M. Kanada, H. Harashina, S. Yoshii, K. Murata, M. Sato, H. Okumura, and K. Kakurai, Nature of spin freezing transition of geometrically frus-trated pyrochlore system R 2Ru 2O7 (R= rare earth el-ements and Y), Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids 62 , 337 (2001). [298] R. Kmieć, i. d. Z. Świątkowska, J. Gurgul, M. Rams, A. Zarzycki, and K. Tomala, Investigation of the mag-netic properties of y2ru 2o7 by 99 Ru mössbauer spec-troscopy, Physical Review B 74 , 104425 (2006). [299] S. Chatterjee and I. Das, Tunable Frustrated Magnetism and Charge Transport in La-Substituted Y 2Ru 2O7 Py-rochlore Ruthenates, The Journal of Physical Chemistry C 10.1021/acs.jpcc.5c06926 (2026). [300] N. Taira, M. Wakeshima, and Y. Hinatsu, Magnetic properties of iridium pyrochlores R 2Ir 2O7 (R= Y, Sm, Eu and Lu), Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 13 ,5527 (2001). [301] H. Kumar and A. Pramanik, Nonequilibrium low tem-perature phase in pyrochlore iridate y2ir2o7: Possibility of glass-like dynamics, Journal of Magnetism and Mag-netic Materials 409 , 20 (2016). [302] J. W. Krizan and R. J. Cava, NaCaNi 2F7: A frustrated high-temperature pyrochlore antiferromagnet with S =1 Ni 2+ , Physical Review B 92 , 014406 (2015). [303] J. W. Krizan and R. J. Cava, NaCaCo 2F7: A single-crystal high-temperature pyrochlore antiferromagnet, Physical Review B 89 , 214401 (2014). [304] K. A. Ross, J. W. Krizan, J. A. Rodriguez-Rivera, R. J. Cava, and C. L. Broholm, Static and dynamic XY -like short-range order in a frustrated magnet with exchange disorder, Physical Review B 93 , 014433 (2016). [305] A. Hemmatzade, C. Balz, J. Ollivier, E. Lhotel, N. Colonna, A. d. S. Rufino, G. J. Nilsen, O. S. Fjellvåg, M. Medarde, S. T. Bramwell, M. J. Harris, P. M. Derlet, and T. Fennell, Algebraic Loop Liquid in the Pyrochlore 

CsNiCrF 6, Physical Review Letters 136 , 106701 (2026). [306] A. D. LaForge, S. H. Pulido, R. J. Cava, B. C. Chan, and A. P. Ramirez, Quasispin Glass in a Geometrically Frus-trated Magnet, Physical Review Letters 110 , 017203 (2013). [307] D. Fiorani, J. Dormann, J. Tholence, and J. Soubey-roux, From the antiferromagnetic regime to the spin-glass state in the frustrated spinel system zncr2xga2-2xo4, Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 18 , 3053 (1985). [308] H. Martinho, N. O. Moreno, J. A. Sanjurjo, C. Ret-tori, A. J. García-Adeva, D. L. Huber, S. B. Oseroff, W. Ratcliff, S.-W. Cheong, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sar-rao, and G. B. Martins, Magnetic properties of the frus-trated antiferromagnetic spinel ZnCr 2O4 and the spin-glass Zn 1−xCd xCr 2O4 (x = 0 .05 , 0.10) , Physical Review B 64 , 024408 (2001). [309] W. Ratcliff, S.-H. Lee, C. Broholm, S.-W. Cheong, and Q. Huang, Freezing of spin correlated nanoclusters in a geometrically frustrated magnet, Physical Review B 65 ,220406 (2002). [310] P. Schiffer, A. P. Ramirez, D. A. Huse, P. L. Gammel, U. Yaron, D. J. Bishop, and A. J. Valentino, Frustration 64 

induced spin freezing in a site-ordered magnet: Gadolin-ium gallium garnet, Physical Review Letters 74 , 2379 (1995). [311] K. Boya, K. Nam, K. Kargeti, A. Jain, R. Kumar, S. Panda, S. Yusuf, P. Paulose, U. Voma, E. Kermarrec, 

et al. , Signatures of spin-liquid state in a 3D frustrated lattice compound KSrFe2 (PO4) 3 with S= 5/2, APL Materials 10 , 10.1063/5.0096942 (2022). [312] Y. Li, D. Phelan, F. Ye, H. Zheng, E. Krivyakina, A. Samarakoon, P. G. LaBarre, J. Neu, T. Siegrist, S. Rosenkranz, et al. , Evolution of magnetic surfboards and spin glass behavior in (fe1- p ga p) 2tio5, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 35 , 475401 (2023). [313] A. Ann Abraham, R. Roy, R. Kulkarni, S. Kanungo, and S. Manni, Electronic and magnetic ground state of 4 d 3 double perovskite ruthenates a2laruo6 (a= ca, sr, ba), Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 37 , 355602 (2025). [314] C. R. Wiebe, J. E. Greedan, G. M. Luke, and J. S. Gardner, Spin-glass behavior in the S = 1 /2 fcc ordered perovskite Sr 2CaReO 6, Physical Review B 65 , 144413 (2002). [315] M. A. de Vries, A. C. Mclaughlin, and J.-W. G. Bos, Valence Bond Glass on an fcc Lattice in the Double Perovskite Ba 2YMoO 6, Physical Review Letters 104 ,177202 (2010). [316] A. C. Mclaughlin, M. A. de Vries, and J.-W. G. Bos, Persistence of the valence bond glass state in the double perovskites Ba 2−xSr xYMoO 6, Physical Review B 82 ,094424 (2010). [317] R. E. Guerra, C. P. Kelleher, A. D. Hollingsworth, and P. M. Chaikin, Freezing on a sphere, Nature 554 , 346 (2018). [318] D. L. Caspar and A. Klug, Physical principles in the construction of regular viruses, in Cold Spring Harbor symposia on quantitative biology , Vol. 27 (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, 1962) pp. 1–24. [319] A. Chubukov, S. Sachdev, and T. Senthil, Large-S ex-pansion for quantum antiferromagnets on a triangular lattice, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 6, 8891 (1994). [320] B. Bernu, C. Lhuillier, and L. Pierre, Signature of néel order in exact spectra of quantum antiferromagnets on finite lattices, Physical Review Letters 69 , 2590 (1992). [321] P. Azaria, B. Delamotte, and D. Mouhanna, Low-temperature properties of two-dimensional frustrated quantum antiferromagnets, Physical Review Letters 68 ,1762 (1992). [322] C.-M. Jian, A. Thomson, A. Rasmussen, Z. Bi, and C. Xu, Deconfined quantum critical point on the tri-angular lattice, Physical Review B 97 , 195115 (2018). [323] H. Kawamura, A. Yamamoto, and T. Okubo, Z2-vortex ordering of the triangular-lattice Heisenberg antiferro-magnet, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 79 ,023701 (2010). [324] S. Nakatsuji, Y. Nambu, K. Onuma, S. Jonas, C. Bro-holm, and Y. Maeno, Coherent behaviour without mag-netic order of the triangular lattice antiferromagnet NiGa 2S4, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 19 ,145232 (2007). [325] D. E. MacLaughlin, Y. Nambu, S. Nakatsuji, R. H. Heffner, L. Shu, O. O. Bernal, and K. Ishida, Unconven-tional spin freezing and fluctuations in the frustrated an-tiferromagnet NiGa 2S4, Physical Review B 78 , 220403 (2008). [326] H. Yamaguchi, S. Kimura, M. Hagiwara, Y. Nambu, S. Nakatsuji, Y. Maeno, and K. Kindo, High-field elec-tron spin resonance in the two-dimensional triangular-lattice antiferromagnet NiGa 2S4, Physical Review B 78 ,180404 (2008). [327] S. Nakatsuji, Y. Nambu, and S. Onoda, Novel Ge-ometrical Frustration Effects in the Two-Dimensional Triangular-Lattice Antiferromagnet NiGa 2S4 and Re-lated Compounds, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 79 , 011003 (2010). [328] S. Zhao, P. Dalmas de Réotier, A. Yaouanc, D. E. MacLaughlin, J. M. Mackie, O. O. Bernal, Y. Nambu, T. Higo, and S. Nakatsuji, Spin dynamics and spin freez-ing in the triangular lattice antiferromagnets FeGa 2S4

and NiGa 2S4, Physical Review B 86 , 064435 (2012). [329] Y. Li, S. Bachus, B. Liu, I. Radelytskyi, A. Bertin, A. Schneidewind, Y. Tokiwa, A. A. Tsirlin, and P. Gegenwart, Rearrangement of Uncorrelated Va-lence Bonds Evidenced by Low-Energy Spin Excitations in YbMgGaO 4, Physical Review Letters 122 , 137201 (2019). [330] H. Li, Y. D. Liao, B.-B. Chen, X.-T. Zeng, X.-L. Sheng, Y. Qi, Z. Y. Meng, and W. Li, Kosterlitz-Thouless melting of magnetic order in the triangular quantum Ising material TmMgGaO4, Nature Communications 

11 , 1111 (2020). [331] J. Khatua, D. Tay, T. Shiroka, M. Pregelj, U. Jena, M. Barik, K. Kargeti, S. Panda, G. Stenning, P. Manuel, et al. , Classical spin liquid state in the emer-gent honeycomb-lattice material tbbo 3, arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.05867 (2024). [332] A. Yadav, A. Elghandour, T. Arh, D. T. Adroja, M. D. Le, G. B. G. Stenning, M. Aouane, S. Luther, F. Hotz, T. J. Hicken, H. Luetkens, A. Zorko, R. Klingeler, and P. Khuntia, Magnetism in the Jeff = 12 kagome antifer-romagnet Nd 3BWO 9: Thermodynamics, nuclear mag-netic resonance, muon spin resonance, and inelastic neu-tron scattering studies, Physical Review B 111 , 094408 (2025). [333] K. Vlášková, P. Proschek, M. Diviš, D. Le, R. H. Col-man, and M. Klicpera, Magnetic properties and crys-tal field splitting of the rare-earth pyrochlore Er 2Ir 2O7,Physical Review B 102 , 054428 (2020). [334] Y. Li, S. Bachus, H. Deng, W. Schmidt, H. Thoma, V. Hutanu, Y. Tokiwa, A. A. Tsirlin, and P. Gegenwart, Partial Up-Up-Down Order with the Continuously Dis-tributed Order Parameter in the Triangular Antiferro-magnet TmMgGaO 4, Phys. Rev. X 10 , 011007 (2020). [335] Y. Shen, C. Liu, Y. Qin, S. Shen, Y.-D. Li, R. Bewley, A. Schneidewind, G. Chen, and J. Zhao, Intertwined dipolar and multipolar order in the triangular-lattice magnet TmMgGaO 4, Nature Communications 10 , 4530 (2019). [336] Z. Hu, Z. Ma, Y.-D. Liao, H. Li, C. Ma, Y. Cui, Y. Shangguan, Z. Huang, Y. Qi, W. Li, et al. , Ev-idence of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless phase in a frustrated magnet, Nature Communications 11 , 5631 (2020). [337] L. Onsager, Crystal Statistics. I. A Two-Dimensional Model with an Order-Disorder Transition, Physical Re-view 65 , 117 (1944). [338] S. M. O’Mahony, W. Ren, W. Chen, Y. X. Chong, X. Liu, H. Eisaki, S.-i. Uchida, M. Hamidian, and J. S. 65 

Davis, On the electron pairing mechanism of copper-oxide high temperature superconductivity, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 119 , e2207449119 (2022). [339] B. Keimer, S. A. Kivelson, M. R. Norman, S. Uchida, and J. Zaanen, From quantum matter to high-temperature superconductivity in copper oxides, Nature 

518 , 179 (2015). [340] H. Schulz, T. Ziman, and D. Poilblanc, Magnetic order and disorder in the frustrated quantum Heisenberg an-tiferromagnet in two dimensions, Journal de Physique I 

6, 675 (1996). [341] L. Wang and A. W. Sandvik, Low-Energy Dynamics of the Two-Dimensional S = 1 /2 Heisenberg Antiferro-magnet on Percolating Clusters, Physical Review Let-ters 97 , 117204 (2006). [342] Y. Chen, W. Bao, Y. Qiu, J. E. Lorenzo, J. L. Sar-rao, D. L. Ho, and M. Y. Lin, Slow spin-glass and fast spin-liquid components in quasi-two-dimensional 

La 2(Cu , Li)O 4, Physical Review B 72 , 184401 (2005). [343] M.-H. Julien, F. Borsa, P. Carretta, M. Horvatić, C. Berthier, and C. T. Lin, Charge Segregation, Cluster Spin Glass, and Superconductivity in La 1.94 Sr 0.06 CuO 4,Physics Review Letters 83 , 604 (1999). [344] M. Matsuda, M. Fujita, K. Yamada, R. J. Birgeneau, M. A. Kastner, H. Hiraka, Y. Endoh, S. Wakimoto, and G. Shirane, Static and dynamic spin correlations in the spin-glass phase of slightly doped La 2−xSr xCuO 4, Phys-ical Review B 62 , 9148 (2000). [345] N. Hasselmann, A. H. Castro Neto, and C. Morais Smith, Spin-glass phase of cuprates, Physical Review B 69 , 014424 (2004). [346] P. Babkevich, V. M. Katukuri, B. Fåk, S. Rols, T. Fen-nell, D. Pajić, H. Tanaka, T. Pardini, R. R. P. Singh, A. Mitrushchenkov, O. V. Yazyev, and H. M. Røn-now, Magnetic Excitations and Electronic Interactions in Sr 2CuTeO 6: A Spin-1/2 Square Lattice Heisenberg Antiferromagnet, Physical Review Letters 117 , 237203 (2016). [347] H. C. Walker, O. Mustonen, S. Vasala, D. J. Voneshen, M. D. Le, D. T. Adroja, and M. Karppinen, Spin wave excitations in the tetragonal double perovskite 

Sr 2CuWO 6, Physical Review B 94 , 064411 (2016). [348] S. Vasala, M. Avdeev, S. Danilkin, O. Chmaissem, and M. Karppinen, Magnetic structure of Sr 2CuWO 6, Jour-nal of Physics: Condensed Matter 26 , 496001 (2014). [349] O. Mustonen, S. Vasala, E. Sadrollahi, K. Schmidt, C. Baines, H. Walker, I. Terasaki, F. Litterst, E. Baggio-Saitovitch, and M. Karppinen, Spin-liquid-like state in a spin-1/2 square-lattice antiferromagnet perovskite in-duced by d10 -d0 cation mixing, Nature Communications 

9, 1085 (2018). [350] E. Fogh, O. Mustonen, P. Babkevich, V. M. Katukuri, H. C. Walker, L. Mangin-Thro, M. Karppinen, S. Ward, B. Normand, and H. M. Rønnow, Randomness and frus-tration in a S = 12 square-lattice Heisenberg antiferro-magnet, Physical Review B 105 , 184410 (2022). [351] K. Uematsu and H. Kawamura, Randomness-induced quantum spin liquid behavior in the s = 1 /2 random 

J1 − J2 Heisenberg antiferromagnet on the honeycomb lattice, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 86 ,044704 (2017). [352] S. Vasala, H. Saadaoui, E. Morenzoni, O. Chmaissem, T.-S. Chan, J.-M. Chen, Y.-Y. Hsu, H. Yamauchi, and M. Karppinen, Characterization of magnetic properties of Sr 2CuWO 6 and Sr 2CuMoO 6, Physical Review B 89 ,134419 (2014). [353] C. Darwin, On the origins of species by means of natural selection, London: Murray 247 , 1859 (1859). [354] S. Trebst and C. Hickey, Kitaev materials, Physics Re-ports 950 , 1 (2022). [355] A. Sahasrabudhe, M. A. Prosnikov, T. C. Koethe, P. Stein, V. Tsurkan, A. Loidl, M. Grüninger, H. He-dayat, and P. H. van Loosdrecht, Chiral excitations and the intermediate-field regime in the kitaev magnet α-rucl 3, Physical Review Research 6, L022005 (2024). [356] A. Sahasrabudhe, D. Kaib, S. Reschke, R. German, T. Koethe, J. Buhot, D. Kamenskyi, C. Hickey, P. Becker, V. Tsurkan, et al. , High-field quantum dis-ordered state in α-rucl 3: Spin flips, bound states, and multiparticle continuum, Physical Review B 101 ,140410 (2020). [357] G. Cao and L. DeLong, Physics of Spin-orbit-coupled Oxides (Oxford University Press, 2021). [358] D. Cox and A. Zawadowski, Exotic Kondo effects in metals: magnetic ions in a crystalline electric field and tunnelling centres, Advances in Physics 47 , 599 (1998). [359] M. Imada, A. Fujimori, and Y. Tokura, Metal-insulator transitions, Reviews of Modern Physics 70 , 1039 (1998). [360] G. Cao and L. E. Delong, Frontiers of 4D-and 5D-transition Metal Oxides (World Scientific, 2013). [361] B. J. Kim, H. Jin, S. J. Moon, J.-Y. Kim, B.-G. Park, C. S. Leem, J. Yu, T. W. Noh, C. Kim, S.-J. Oh, J.-H. Park, V. Durairaj, G. Cao, and E. Rotenberg, Novel Jeff = 1 /2 Mott State Induced by Relativistic Spin-Orbit Coupling in Sr 2IrO 4, Physical Review Let-ters 101 , 076402 (2008). [362] W. Witczak-Krempa, G. Chen, Y. B. Kim, and L. Ba-lents, Correlated Quantum Phenomena in the Strong Spin-Orbit Regime, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 

5, 57 (2014). [363] A. Kitaev, Anyons in an exactly solved model and be-yond, Annals of Physics 321 , 2 (2006). [364] L. Holleis, J. C. Prestigiacomo, Z. Fan, S. Nishimoto, M. Osofsky, G.-W. Chern, J. van den Brink, and B. Shivaram, Anomalous and anisotropic nonlinear sus-ceptibility in the proximate Kitaev magnet α-RuCl 3,npj Quantum Materials 6, 66 (2021). [365] M. Serbyn, D. A. Abanin, and Z. Papić, Quantum many-body scars and weak breaking of ergodicity, Nature Physics 17 , 675 (2021). [366] X.-Y. Song, Y.-Z. You, and L. Balents, Low-Energy Spin Dynamics of the Honeycomb Spin Liquid Beyond the Kitaev Limit, Physical Review Letters 117 , 037209 (2016). [367] W.-L. You, Z. Zhao, J. Ren, G. Sun, L. Li, and A. M. Oleś, Quantum many-body scars in spin-1 Kitaev chains, Physical Review Research 4, 013103 (2022). [368] S. Bachhar, M. Baenitz, J. Wilkinson, and A. V. Mahajan, Effects of Ru doping on the magnetism of 

Ag 3LiIr 2O6: A candidate Kitaev quantum spin liquid, Physical Review B 112 , 035142 (2025). [369] F. Bahrami, E. M. Kenney, C. Wang, A. Berlie, O. I. Lebedev, M. J. Graf, and F. Tafti, Effect of structural disorder on the Kitaev magnet Ag 3LiIr 2O6, Physical Review B 103 , 094427 (2021). [370] A. Chakraborty, V. Kumar, S. Bachhar, N. Büttgen, K. Yokoyama, P. K. Biswas, V. Siruguri, S. Pujari, 66 

I. Dasgupta, and A. V. Mahajan, Unusual spin dynam-ics in the low-temperature magnetically ordered state of 

Ag 3LiIr 2O6, Physical Review B 104 , 115106 (2021). [371] R. Kumar, T. Dey, P. M. Ette, K. Ramesha, A. Chakraborty, I. Dasgupta, J. C. Orain, C. Baines, S. Tóth, A. Shahee, S. Kundu, M. Prinz-Zwick, A. A. Gippius, N. Büttgen, P. Gegenwart, and A. V. Maha-jan, Unconventional magnetism in the 4d4-based S = 1 

honeycomb system Ag 3LiRu 2O6, Physical Review B 99 ,054417 (2019). [372] T. Takayama, M. Blankenhorn, J. Bertinshaw, D. Haskel, N. A. Bogdanov, K. Kitagawa, A. N. Yaresko, A. Krajewska, S. Bette, G. McNally, A. S. Gibbs, Y. Matsumoto, D. P. Sari, I. Watanabe, G. Fabbris, W. Bi, T. I. Larkin, K. S. Rabinovich, A. V. Boris, H. Ishii, H. Yamaoka, T. Irifune, R. Bewley, C. J. Rid-ley, C. L. Bull, R. Dinnebier, B. Keimer, and H. Takagi, Competing spin-orbital singlet states in the 4d4 honey-comb ruthenate Ag 3LiRu 2O6, Phys. Rev. Res. 4, 043079 (2022). [373] G. Bastien, M. Roslova, M. Haghighi, K. Mehlawat, J. Hunger, A. Isaeva, T. Doert, M. Vojta, B. Büchner, and A. Wolter, Spin-glass state and reversed magnetic anisotropy induced by cr doping in the kitaev magnet 

α-rucl 3, Physical Review B 99 , 214410 (2019). [374] S. Manni, Y. Tokiwa, and P. Gegenwart, Effect of nonmagnetic dilution in the honeycomb-lattice iridates Na 2IrO 3 and Li 2IrO 3, Physical Review B 89 , 241102 (2014). [375] K. Mehlawat, G. Sharma, and Y. Singh, Fragile mag-netic order in the honeycomb lattice iridate na 2 iro 3 revealed by magnetic impurity doping, Physical Review B 92 , 134412 (2015). [376] Y. Haraguchi and H. A. Katori, Monoclinic distortion in hyperhoneycomb Kitaev material β-ZnIrO 3 revealed by improved sample quality, Chemistry Letters 52 , 404 (2023). [377] E. K.-H. Lee, R. Schaffer, S. Bhattacharjee, and Y. B. Kim, Heisenberg-Kitaev model on the hyperhoneycomb lattice, Physical Review B 89 , 045117 (2014). [378] M. Subramanian, G. Aravamudan, and G. S. Rao, Oxide pyrochlores—a review, Progress in Solid State Chem-istry 15 , 55 (1983). [379] P. W. Anderson, Ordering and Antiferromagnetism in Ferrites, Phys. Rev. 102 , 1008 (1956). [380] J. S. Gardner, M. J. P. Gingras, and J. E. Greedan, Magnetic pyrochlore oxides, Rev. Mod. Phys. 82 , 53 (2010). [381] R. Moessner and J. T. Chalker, Properties of a Classical Spin Liquid: The Heisenberg Pyrochlore Antiferromag-net, Physical Review Letters 80 , 2929 (1998). [382] B. Canals and C. Lacroix, Quantum spin liquid: The Heisenberg antiferromagnet on the three-dimensional pyrochlore lattice, Physical Review B 61 , 1149 (2000). [383] M. J. Harris, S. T. Bramwell, D. F. McMorrow, T. Zeiske, and K. W. Godfrey, Geometrical Frustra-tion in the Ferromagnetic Pyrochlore Ho 2Ti 2O7, Phys-ical Review Letters 79 , 2554 (1997). [384] A. P. Ramirez, A. Hayashi, R. J. Cava, R. Siddharthan, and B. Shastry, Zero-point entropy in ‘spin ice’, Nature 

399 , 333 (1999). [385] H. Shinaoka, Y. Tomita, and Y. Motome, Spin-Glass Transition in Bond-Disordered Heisenberg Antiferro-magnets Coupled with Local Lattice Distortions on a Pyrochlore Lattice, Physical Review Letters 107 ,047204 (2011). [386] Y. Taguchi, Y. Oohara, H. Yoshizawa, N. Nagaosa, and Y. Tokura, Spin chirality, Berry phase, and anomalous Hall effect in a frustrated ferromagnet, Science 291 ,2573 (2001). [387] D. J. P. Morris, D. A. Tennant, S. A. Grigera, B. Klemke, C. Castelnovo, R. Moessner, C. Czter-nasty, M. Meissner, K. Rule, J.-U. Hoffmann, et al. ,Dirac strings and magnetic monopoles in the spin ice Dy 2Ti 2O7, Science 326 , 411 (2009). [388] S. Bramwell and M. Harris, Frustration in Ising-type spin models on the pyrochlore lattice, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 10 , L215 (1998). [389] T. Fennell, P. Deen, A. Wildes, K. Schmalzl, D. Prab-hakaran, A. Boothroyd, R. Aldus, D. McMorrow, and S. Bramwell, Magnetic Coulomb phase in the spin ice Ho 2Ti 2O7, Science 326 , 415 (2009). [390] P. A. M. Dirac, Quantised singularities in the electro-magnetic field, Proceedings of the Royal Society of Lon-don. Series A, Containing Papers of a Mathematical and Physical Character 133 , 60 (1931). [391] G. t Hooft, Magnetic monopoles in unified theories, Nucl. Phys. B 79 , 276 (1974). [392] J. Snyder, J. Slusky, R. Cava, and P. Schiffer, How ‘spin ice’ freezes, Nature 413 , 48 (2001). [393] S. V. Isakov, R. Moessner, and S. L. Sondhi, Why Spin Ice Obeys the Ice Rules, Physical Review Letters 95 ,217201 (2005). [394] L. Pauling, The structure and Entropy of Ice and of Other Crystals with some Randomness of Atomic Ar-rangement, Journal of the American Chemical Society 

57 , 2680 (1935). [395] S. T. Bramwell and M. J. Gingras, Spin ice state in frustrated magnetic pyrochlore materials, Science 294 ,1495 (2001). [396] X.-G. Wen, Quantum field theory of many-body systems-from the origin of sound to an origin of light and fermions (2003). [397] X.-G. Wen, Choreographed entanglement dances: Topo-logical states of quantum matter, Science 363 , eaal3099 (2019). [398] C. Castelnovo, R. Moessner, and S. L. Sondhi, Spin ice, Fractionalization, and Topological Order, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 3, 35 (2012). [399] C. Castelnovo, R. Moessner, and S. L. Sondhi, Ther-mal Quenches in Spin Ice, Physical Review Letters 104 ,107201 (2010). [400] Y. Cai, M. Wilson, A. Hallas, L. Liu, B. Frandsen, S. Dunsiger, J. Krizan, R. Cava, O. Rubel, Y. Uemura, 

et al. , μSR study of spin freezing and persistent spin dy-namics in NaCaNi 2F7, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 30 , 385802 (2018). [401] S.-H. Lee, D. Louca, H. Ueda, S. Park, T. J. Sato, M. Isobe, Y. Ueda, S. Rosenkranz, P. Zschack, J. Íñiguez, Y. Qiu, and R. Osborn, Orbital and Spin Chains in ZnV 2O4, Physical Review Letters 93 , 156407 (2004). [402] L. Clark, C. Ritter, A. Harrison, and J. Attfield, Oxy-gen miscibility gap and spin glass formation in the py-rochlore Lu 2Mo 2O7, Journal of Solid State Chemistry 

203 , 199 (2013). [403] J. S. Gardner, B. D. Gaulin, S.-H. Lee, C. Broholm, N. P. Raju, and J. E. Greedan, Glassy Statics and Dy-67 

namics in the Chemically Ordered Pyrochlore Antifer-romagnet Y2Mo 2O7, Physical Review Letters 83 , 211 (1999). [404] S. K. Dey, K. Ishida, H. Okabe, M. Hiraishi, A. Koda, T. Honda, J. Yamaura, H. Kageyama, and R. Kadono, Local spin dynamics in the geometrically frustrated Mo pyrochlore antiferromagnet Lu 2Mo 2O5−y N2, Physical Review B 107 , 024407 (2023). [405] N. Taira, M. Wakeshima, and Y. Hinatsu, Mag-netic properties of ruthenium pyrochlores y2ru2o7and lu2ru2o7, Journal of Solid State Chemistry 144 , 216 (1999). [406] T. Fennell, M. Harris, S. Calder, M. Ruminy, M. Boehm, P. Steffens, M.-H. Lemée-Cailleau, O. Za-harko, A. Cervellino, and S. Bramwell, Multiple Coulomb phase in the fluoride pyrochlore CsNiCrF 6,Nature Physics 15 , 60 (2019). [407] K. Plumb, H. J. Changlani, A. Scheie, S. Zhang, J. Krizan, J. Rodriguez-Rivera, Y. Qiu, B. Winn, R. J. Cava, and C. L. Broholm, Continuum of quantum fluc-tuations in a three-dimensional S = 1 Heisenberg mag-net, Nature Physics 15 , 54 (2019). [408] D. Bergman, J. Alicea, E. Gull, S. Trebst, and L. Balents, Order-by-disorder and spiral spin-liquid in frustrated diamond-lattice antiferromagnets, Nature Physics 3, 487 (2007). [409] H. Kawamura, Universality of phase transitions of frus-trated antiferromagnets, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 10 , 4707 (1998). [410] C. L. Henley, The “Coulomb phase” in frustrated sys-tems, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 1, 179 (2010). [411] B. Grünbaum and G. C. Shephard, Tilings and patterns 

(Courier Dover Publications, 1987). [412] R. Shrock and S.-H. Tsai, Lower bounds and series for the ground-state entropy of the Potts antiferromagnet on Archimedean lattices and their duals, Physical Re-view E 56 , 4111 (1997). [413] D. Farnell, O. Götze, J. Schulenburg, R. Zinke, R. Bishop, and P. Li, Interplay between lattice topol-ogy, frustration, and spin quantum number in quantum antiferromagnets on Archimedean lattices, Physical Re-view B 98 , 224402 (2018). [414] J. V. Field, Rediscovering the Archimedean Polyhedra: Piero della Francesca, Luca Pacioli, Leonardo da Vinci, Albrecht Dürer, Daniele Barbaro, and Johannes Kepler, Archive for History of Exact Sciences 50 , 241 (1997). [415] U. Yu, Ising antiferromagnet on the Archimedean lat-tices., Physical review. E, Statistical, nonlinear, and soft matter physics 91 6 , 062121 (2015). [416] P. Conrad, The essential closure of an Archimedean lattice-ordered group, Duke Math. J. 10.1215/S0012-7094-71-03819-1 (1971). [417] J. Martinez, Archimedean lattices, Algebra Universalis 

3, 247 (1973). [418] J. Richter, J. Schulenburg, and A. Honecker, Quantum Magnetism in Two Dimensions: From Semi-classical Néel Order to Magnetic Disorder, Quantum Magnetism , 85 (2004). [419] S. Kobe and T. Klotz, Frustration: How it can be mea-sured, Physical Review E 52 , 5660 (1995). [420] D. J. Farnell, O. Götze, J. Richter, R. Bishop, and P. Li, Quantum s= 1 2 antiferromagnets on archimedean lat-tices: The route from semiclassical magnetic order to nonmagnetic quantum states, Physical Review B 89 ,184407 (2014). [421] F. C. De Lima, G. J. Ferreira, and R. Miwa, Topolog-ical flat band, Dirac fermions and quantum spin Hall phase in 2D Archimedean lattices, Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics 21 , 22344 (2019). [422] Q. Zhang, Thermodynamic and magnetic properties of the Archimedean lattices, International Journal of Mod-ern Physics B 19 , 4259 (2005). [423] X. Hu, D. M. Pajerowski, D. Zhang, A. A. Podlesnyak, Y. Qiu, Q. Huang, H. Zhou, I. Klich, A. I. Kolesnikov, M. B. Stone, et al. , Freezing of a disorder induced spin liquid with strong quantum fluctuations, Physical re-view letters 127 , 017201 (2021). [424] J. A. Paddison, H. Jacobsen, O. A. Petrenko, M. T. Fernández-Díaz, P. P. Deen, and A. L. Goodwin, Hid-den order in spin-liquid Gd 3Ga 5O12 , Science 350 , 179 (2015). [425] Y. Okamoto, M. Nohara, H. Aruga-Katori, and H. Tak-agi, Spin-Liquid State in the S= 1/2 Hyperkagome An-tiferromagnet Na 4Ir 3O8, Physical Review Letters 99 ,137207 (2007). [426] R. Dally, T. Hogan, A. Amato, H. Luetkens, C. Baines, J. Rodriguez-Rivera, M. J. Graf, and S. D. Wilson, Short-Range Correlations in the Magnetic Ground State of Na 4Ir 3O8, Physical Review Letters 113 , 247601 (2014). [427] P. M. M. Thygesen, J. A. M. Paddison, R. Zhang, K. A. Beyer, K. W. Chapman, H. Y. Playford, M. G. Tucker, D. A. Keen, M. A. Hayward, and A. L. Goodwin, Or-bital Dimer Model for the Spin-Glass State in Y2Mo 2O7,Physical Review Letters 118 , 067201 (2017). [428] W. Wolf, M. Ball, M. Hutchings, M. Leask, H. MJ, and A. Wyatt, The magnetic properties of rare earth ions in garnets, J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 17 , 443 (1962). [429] J. Khatua, S. Krishnamoorthi, C. Koo, G. Ban, T. Kim, S. Kim, Y. Oshima, J. A. Krieger, T. J. Hicken, H. Luetkens, M. Uhlarz, E. Mun, K. J. Lee, S. H. Chang, R. Sankar, and K.-Y. Choi, Coexistence of anomalous spin dynamics and weak magnetic order in the chiral trillium lattice K2FeSn(PO 4)3, Physical Review B 112 ,064430 (2025). [430] A. P. Young, Spin glasses and random fields , Vol. 12 (World Scientific, 1998). [431] J.-P. Bouchaud, Weak ergodicity breaking and aging in disordered systems, Journal de Physique I 2, 1705 (1992). [432] A. Malinowski, V. L. Bezusyy, R. Minikayev, P. Dziawa, Y. Syryanyy, and M. Sawicki, Spin-glass behavior in Ni-doped La 1.85 Sr 0.15 CuO 4, Physical Review B 84 , 024409 (2011). [433] S. Nagata, P. H. Keesom, and H. R. Harrison, Low-dc-field susceptibility of CuMn spin glass, Physical Review B 19 , 1633 (1979). [434] H. Maletta and W. Felsch, Insulating spin-glass system 

Eu xSr 1−xS, Physical Review B 20 , 1245 (1979). [435] J. Wu, J. S. Wildeboer, F. Werner, A. Seidel, Z. Nussi-nov, and S. Solin, Spin glassiness and power law scaling in anisotropic triangular spin-1/2 antiferromagnets, Eu-rophysics Letters 93 , 67001 (2011). [436] T. Giamarchi, C. Rüegg, and O. Tchernyshyov, Bose-Einstein condensation in magnetic insulators, Nature Physics 4, 198 (2008). [437] A. A. Aczel, Y. Kohama, C. Marcenat, F. Weickert, M. Jaime, O. E. Ayala-Valenzuela, R. D. McDonald, 68 

S. D. Selesnic, H. A. Dabkowska, and G. M. Luke, Field-Induced Bose-Einstein Condensation of Triplons up to 8 K in Sr 3Cr 2O8, Physical Review Letters 103 , 207203 (2009). [438] A. Drozdov, M. Eremets, I. Troyan, V. Ksenofontov, and S. I. Shylin, Conventional superconductivity at 203 kelvin at high pressures in the sulfur hydride system, Nature 525 , 73 (2015). [439] S. Uji, H. Shinagawa, T. Terashima, T. Yakabe, Y. Terai, M. Tokumoto, A. Kobayashi, H. Tanaka, and H. Kobayashi, Magnetic-field-induced superconductiv-ity in a two-dimensional organic conductor, Nature 410 ,908 (2001). [440] M. S. Torikachvili, S. L. Bud’ko, N. Ni, and P. C. Can-field, Pressure Induced Superconductivity in CaFe 2As 2,Physical Review Letters 101 , 057006 (2008). [441] Y. J. Yan, M. Q. Ren, H. C. Xu, B. P. Xie, R. Tao, H. Y. Choi, N. Lee, Y. J. Choi, T. Zhang, and D. L. Feng, Electron-doped sr 2iro 4: An analogue of hole-doped cuprate superconductors demonstrated by scan-ning tunneling microscopy, Physical Review X 5, 041018 (2015). [442] I. Mirebeau, I. Goncharenko, P. Cadavez-Peres, S. Bramwell, M. Gingras, and J. Gardner, Pressure-induced crystallization of a spin liquid, Nature 420 , 54 (2002). [443] M. Thede, A. Mannig, M. Månsson, D. Hüvonen, R. Khasanov, E. Morenzoni, and A. Zheludev, Pressure-Induced Quantum Critical and Multicritical Points in a Frustrated Spin Liquid, Physical Review Letters 112 ,087204 (2014). [444] C. Rüegg, A. Furrer, D. Sheptyakov, T. Strässle, K. W. Krämer, H.-U. Güdel, and L. Mélési, Pressure-Induced Quantum Phase Transition in the Spin-Liquid TlCuCl 3,Physical Review Letters 93 , 257201 (2004). [445] S.-H. Baek, S.-H. Do, K.-Y. Choi, Y. S. Kwon, A. U. B. Wolter, S. Nishimoto, J. van den Brink, and B. Büchner, Evidence for a Field-Induced Quantum Spin Liquid in 

α-RuCl 3, Physical Review Letters 119 , 037201 (2017). [446] C. A. M. Mulder, A. J. van Duyneveldt, and J. A. Mydosh, Susceptibility of the CuMn spin-glass: Fre-quency and field dependences, Physical Review B 23 ,1384 (1981). [447] A. S. Wills, A. Harrison, C. Ritter, and R. I. Smith, Magnetic properties of pure and diamagnetically doped jarosites: Model kagomé antiferromagnets with variable coverage of the magnetic lattice, Physical Review B 61 ,6156 (2000). [448] R. Moessner and A. P. Ramirez, Geometrical frustra-tion, Physics Today 59 , 24 (2006). [449] J. Villain, R. Bidaux, J.-P. Carton, and R. Conte, Order as an effect of disorder, Journal de Physique 41 , 1263 (1980). [450] R. Takagi, J. White, S. Hayami, R. Arita, D. Honecker, H. Rønnow, Y. Tokura, and S. Seki, Multiple −q non-collinear magnetism in an itinerant hexagonal magnet, Science advances 4, eaau3402 (2018). [451] S. Hayami and Y. Motome, Noncoplanar multiple-Q

spin textures by itinerant frustration: Effects of single-ion anisotropy and bond-dependent anisotropy, Physi-cal Review B 103 , 054422 (2021). [452] W. Keesom and A. Keesom, New measurements on the specific heat of liquid helium, Physica 2, 557 (1935). [453] L. D. C. Jaubert, Y. Iqbal, and H. O. Jeschke, Spin-Peierls Transition in the Frustrated Spinels ZnCr 2O4

and MgCr 2O4, Physical Review Letters 134 , 086702 (2025). [454] J. Wen, S.-L. Yu, S. Li, W. Yu, and J.-X. Li, Experimen-tal identification of quantum spin liquids, npj Quantum Materials 4, 12 (2019). [455] U. Jena, S. Kundu, S. Lee, Q. Faure, F. Damay, S. Rols, A. Berlie, S. Petit, K.-Y. Choi, and P. Khuntia, Spin liq-uid state in the three dimensional pyrochlore-like frus-trated magnet MgCrGaO 4, Physical Review B 113 ,L100404 (2026). [456] R. Siddharthan, B. S. Shastry, A. P. Ramirez, A. Hayashi, R. J. Cava, and S. Rosenkranz, Ising Py-rochlore Magnets: Low-Temperature Properties, “Ice Rules,” and Beyond, Physical Review Letters 83 , 1854 (1999). [457] K. Lee, R. Melendrez, A. Pal, and H. J. Changlani, Ex-act three-colored quantum scars from geometric frustra-tion, Physical Review B 101 , 241111 (2020). [458] P. A. McClarty, M. Haque, A. Sen, and J. Richter, Disorder-free localization and many-body quantum scars from magnetic frustration, Physical Review B 102 ,224303 (2020). [459] P. H. Harkema, M. Iversen, and A. E. B. Nielsen, Hilbert space fragmentation from lattice geometry, Physical Re-view A 110 , 023301 (2024). [460] A. Signoles, T. Franz, R. Ferracini Alves, M. Gärttner, S. Whitlock, G. Zürn, and M. Weidemüller, Glassy dy-namics in a disordered heisenberg quantum spin system, Physical Review X 11 , 011011 (2021). [461] J. Wildeboer, A. Seidel, N. S. Srivatsa, A. E. B. Nielsen, and O. Erten, Topological quantum many-body scars in quantum dimer models on the kagome lattice, Physical Review B 104 , L121103 (2021). [462] Y. Kuno, T. Mizoguchi, and Y. Hatsugai, Flat band quantum scar, Physical Review B 102 , 241115 (2020). [463] E. Maniv, N. L. Nair, S. C. Haley, S. Doyle, C. John, S. Cabrini, A. Maniv, S. K. Ramakrishna, Y.-L. Tang, P. Ercius, et al. , Antiferromagnetic switching driven by the collective dynamics of a coexisting spin glass, Sci-ence Advances 7, eabd8452 (2021). [464] H. Zhang, Y.-T. Shao, X. Chen, B. Zhang, T. Wang, F. Meng, K. Xu, P. Meisenheimer, X. Chen, X. Huang, 

et al. , Spin disorder control of topological spin texture, Nature Communications 15 , 3828 (2024). [465] Z. Wang, M. Wang, T. Heine, and X. Feng, Electronic and quantum properties of organic two-dimensional crystals, Nature Reviews Materials 10 , 147 (2025). [466] G. Parisi, Spin glasses and fragile glasses: Statics, dy-namics, and complexity, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 103 , 7948 (2006). [467] S. Kirkpatrick, C. D. Gelatt Jr, and M. P. Vecchi, Optimization by simulated annealing, science 220 , 671 (1983). [468] T. Kadowaki and H. Nishimori, Quantum annealing in the transverse ising model, Phys. Rev. E 58 , 5355 (1998). [469] J. J. Hopfield, Neural networks and physical systems with emergent collective computational abilities., Pro-ceedings of the national academy of sciences 79 , 2554 (1982). [470] M. Mezard and A. Montanari, Information, physics, and computation (Oxford University Press, 2009). 69 

[471] H. Nishimori, Statistical physics of spin glasses and in-formation processing: an introduction , 111 (Clarendon Press, 2001). [472] Y. Zhou, K. Kanoda, and T.-K. Ng, Quantum spin liquid states, Reviews of Modern Physics 89 , 025003 (2017). [473] J. Knolle and R. Moessner, A field guide to spin liquids, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 10 , 451 (2019). [474] R. B. Laughlin and D. Pines, The theory of everything, Proceedings of the national academy of sciences 97 , 28 (2000). [475] P. W. Anderson, Sources of quantum protection in high-

Tc superconductivity, Science 288 , 480 (2000). [476] A. Y. Kitaev, Fault-tolerant quantum computation by anyons, Annals of physics 303 , 2 (2003). [477] P. A. Lee, From high temperature superconductivity to quantum spin liquid: progress in strong correla-tion physics, Reports on Progress in Physics 71 , 012501 (2007). [478] M. Vojta, Frustration and quantum criticality, Reports on Progress in Physics 81 , 064501 (2018). [479] T. Jungwirth, X. Marti, P. Wadley, and J. Wunderlich, Antiferromagnetic spintronics, Nature Nanotechnology 

11 , 231 (2016). [480] V. Baltz, A. Manchon, M. Tsoi, T. Moriyama, T. Ono, and Y. Tserkovnyak, Antiferromagnetic spintronics, Re-views of Modern Physics 90 , 015005 (2018). [481] N. L. Nair, E. Maniv, C. John, S. Doyle, J. Orenstein, and J. G. Analytis, Electrical switching in a magneti-cally intercalated transition metal dichalcogenide, Na-ture Materials 19 , 153 (2020). [482] M.-H. Gao, Y. Zhang, S.-T. Sun, C.-H. Yin, Z.-K. Yang, Y.-Y. Lv, J. Zhou, J.-H. Feng, S.-H. Yao, Y. B. Chen, and Y.-F. Chen, Metamagnetism and topological hall effect observed in monoclinic van der waals NbFeTe 2

crystals, Physical Review Research 7, 023219 (2025). [483] A. K. Nayak, M. Nicklas, S. Chadov, P. Khuntia, C. Shekhar, A. Kalache, M. Baenitz, Y. Skourski, V. K. Guduru, A. Puri, et al. , Design of compensated ferri-magnetic heusler alloys for giant tunable exchange bias, Nature materials 14 , 679 (2015). [484] W. H. Meiklejohn and C. P. Bean, New magnetic anisotropy, Physical Review 102 , 1413 (1956). [485] X. Huang, P. Sheng, Z. Tu, F. Zhang, J. Wang, H. Geng, Y. Zou, C.-a. Di, Y. Yi, Y. Sun, et al. , A two-dimensional π-d conjugated coordination polymer with extremely high electrical conductivity and ambipolar transport behaviour, Nature Communications 6, 7408 (2015). [486] T. Takenaka, K. Ishihara, M. Roppongi, Y. Miao, Y. Mizukami, T. Makita, J. Tsurumi, S. Watanabe, J. Takeya, M. Yamashita, et al. , Strongly correlated su-perconductivity in a copper-based metal-organic frame-work with a perfect kagome lattice, Science Advances 7,eabf3996 (2021). [487] Z. Wang, N. Su, and F. Liu, Prediction of a two-dimensional organic topological insulator, Nano Letters 

13 , 2842 (2013). [488] J.-H. Park, W. T. Kim, W. Won, J.-H. Kang, S. Lee, B.-G. Park, B. S. Ham, Y. Jo, F. Rotermund, and K.-J. Kim, Observation of spin-glass-like characteristics in ferrimagnetic tbco through energy-level-selective ap-proach, Nature Communications 13 , 5530 (2022). [489] U. Kamber, A. Bergman, A. Eich, D. Iuşan, M. Stein-brecher, N. Hauptmann, L. Nordström, M. I. Katsnel-son, D. Wegner, O. Eriksson, et al. , Self-induced spin glass state in elemental and crystalline neodymium, Sci-ence 368 , eaay6757 (2020). [490] B. Verlhac, L. Niggli, A. Bergman, U. Kamber, A. Bagrov, D. Iuşan, L. Nordström, M. I. Katsnelson, D. Wegner, O. Eriksson, et al. , Thermally induced mag-netic order from glassiness in elemental neodymium, Na-ture Physics 18 , 905 (2022). [491] M. D. Ediger, Spatially heterogeneous dynamics in su-percooled liquids, Annual Review of Physical Chemistry 

51 , 99 (2000). [492] H. Kawamura and S. Miyashita, Phase transition of the heisenberg antiferromagnet on the triangular lattice in a magnetic field, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 

54 , 4530 (1985). [493] G. Semeghini, H. Levine, A. Keesling, S. Ebadi, T. T. Wang, D. Bluvstein, R. Verresen, H. Pichler, M. Kali-nowski, R. Samajdar, et al. , Probing topological spin liquids on a programmable quantum simulator, Science 

374 , 1242 (2021). [494] R. Samajdar, W. W. Ho, H. Pichler, M. D. Lukin, and S. Sachdev, Quantum phases of rydberg atoms on a kagome lattice, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 118 , e2015785118 (2021). [495] . R. Wang, C. Nisoli, R. S. d. Freitas, J. Li, W. Mc-Conville, B. Cooley, M. Lund, N. Samarth, C. Leighton, V. Crespi, et al. , Artificial ‘spin ice’in a geometrically frustrated lattice of nanoscale ferromagnetic islands, Nature 439 , 303 (2006). [496] B. Placke, T. Rakovszky, N. P. Breuckmann, and V. Khemani, Topological quantum spin glass order and its realization in qldpc codes, arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.13248 10.48550/arXiv.2412.13248 (2024). [497] P. W. Anderson, Spin glass i: A scaling law rescued, Physics Today 41 , 9 (1988).