Title: Interlayer-coupling-driven stabilization and superconductivity in bilayer CoTe$_2$

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.22101v1

Published Time: Tue, 24 Mar 2026 02:51:12 GMT

Number of Pages: 10

Markdown Content:
# Interlayer-coupling-driven stabilization and superconductivity in bilayer CoTe 2

Wenping Chen, 1 Ziyun Zhang, 1 and Feipeng Zheng 1, ∗

> 1

Department of Physics, Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China 

(Dated: March 24, 2026) Interlayer coupling plays a critical role in van der Waals materials by governing lattice stabil-ity and emergent quantum phases, yet its impact on few-layer hexagonal CoTe 2 remains unclear. Here, using first-principles calculations, we systematically investigate monolayer and bilayer CoTe 2

with an emphasis on their electronic structures, lattice dynamics, and electron-phonon coupling, and elucidate the underlying mechanisms driven by interlayer interactions. Our results show that monolayer CoTe 2 exhibits pronounced dynamical instability at low temperatures, whereas interlayer coupling stabilizes the bilayer crystal structure and gives rise to phonon-mediated superconductivity with a predicted critical temperature of about 4 .7 K. The stabilization and superconductivity in bi-layer CoTe 2 are primarily attributed to interlayer-coupling-induced Te-pz charge redistribution and the associated modification of the Fermi surface and electron-phonon coupling. Finally, we discuss how spin-orbit coupling in bilayer CoTe 2 weakens the EPC and suppresses superconductivity. Our work clarifies how interlayer coupling can jointly tune structural stability and superconductivity in few-layer CoTe 2, providing insights for engineering quantum phases in layered transition-metal dichalcogenides. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Van der Waals (VDW) materials are layered systems in which adjacent layers are held together by VDW forces. They can be grown from monolayer (1L) to multilayers using techniques such as mechanical exfoliation, molec-ular beam epitaxy, and chemical vapor deposition. The interlayer coupling in VDW materials can strongly in-fluence their physical properties, leading to pronounced layer-dependent behaviors. The ability to continuously tune the layer number enables systematic control of in-terlayer coupling, offering a powerful platform to inves-tigate layer-dependent electronic orders, band topology, and low-dimensional quantum phenomena. For example, in 1 T -VTe 2, the charge density wave (CDW) order evolves with thickness. Bulk VTe 2 under-goes a structural transition from the hexagonal 1 T phase to the monoclinic 1 T ′′ phase, induced by a 3 ×1×3 CDW [1–3]. In contrast, monolayer (1L) VTe 2 exhibits coex-isting 4 × 4 and 2 √3 × 2√3 CDW orders [4–7]. When reduced to a 1L, 1 T -PtTe 2 undergoes a Lifshitz transition from a metal to a semiconductor with a band gap of about 0.79 eV [8]. Weakening the interlayer coupling through intercalation transforms bulk 2 H-NbSe 2 into a weakly coupled quasi-two-dimensional system, allowing it to ex-hibit Ising superconductivity with a relatively high crit-ical temperature comparable to that of its bulk counter-part [9, 10]. These results demonstrate that investigating interlayer coupling in VDW materials not only deepens our understanding of their physical properties but also provides effective strategies for property tuning. CoTe 2 is another transition-metal dichalcogenide, which exhibits multiple structural phases, including an orthorhombic phase, and a layered hexagonal (in 1 T

structure) phase. Previous studies have shown that the orthorhombic phase exhibits magnetic order, which is in-fluenced by both thickness and crystal orientation, dis-playing strong magnetic anisotropy [11, 12]. In con-trast, bulk hexagonal CoTe 2 does not possess long-range magnetic order [13–15]. Recent angle-resolved photoe-mission spectroscopy measurements combined with first-principles calculations further identify it as a type-II Dirac semimetal [13]. For few-layer CoTe 2, substan-tial progress has been made in both synthesis and ma-terials engineering: multiple studies have reported the growth of few-layer CoTe 2, as well as the creation of derivative phases Co xTe y via defect engineering, dop-ing, and intercalation [15–20]. For instance, thickness-controlled CoTe 2 films with thicknesses exceeding 4 nm have been synthesized, exhibiting electrical conductiv-ities superior to those of many other transition-metal chalcogenides [15]. Moreover, experiments show that adjusting the relative chemical potentials of Co and Te allows the formation of bilayer (2L) CoTe 2 and self-intercalated structures such as Co 9Te 16 . The self-intercalated phase displays kagome-like patterns in scan-ning tunneling microscopy and has been predicted to host flat-band features [19]. First-principles calcula-tions further suggest that magnetic order—absent in pris-tine CoTe 2—can emerge in these self-intercalated struc-tures [16, 19]. Despite these advances, a key question remains unresolved: how does interlayer coupling govern the intrinsic properties of pristine hexagonal CoTe 2? Sys-tematic investigations targeting this issue are still lack-ing. In this work, we employ first-principles calculations to systematically investigate the lattice dynamics, elec-tronic structure, and electron-phonon coupling (EPC) in 1L and 2L 1 T -CoTe 2 (hereafter CoTe 2). Our results show that the 1L is dynamically unstable, exhibiting pro-nounced imaginary phonon modes primarily originating from out-of-plane Te (Te z ) vibrations and in-plane Co 

> arXiv:2603.22101v1 [cond-mat.mtrl-sci] 23 Mar 2026

2(Co xy ) vibrations. In contrast, when going from 1L to 2L, interlayer coupling induces a redistribution of Te pz elec-trons, which strongly affects the Fermi surface and effec-tively suppresses the dynamical instability. Meanwhile, phonon-mediated superconductivity emerges in the 2L, with an estimated critical temperature ( Tc) of approxi-mately 4.7 K. We further clarify the respective roles of interlayer coupling and spin-orbit coupling (SOC) and analyze the mechanisms through which they influence the EPC.  

> II. COMPUTATIONAL METHOD

Density-functional theory (DFT) and density-functional perturbation theory calculations were performed with the PBE exchange-correlation functional [21]. We employed three types of pseudopotentials in our calculations: the projector-augmented wave (PAW) method [22], optimized norm-conserving Van-derbilt (ONCV) pseudopotentials [23–25], and the norm-conserving pseudopotentials recommended by the PseudoDojo project [26]. These calculations employed a combination of QUANTUM ESPRESSO (QE)[27] and the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) [28]. The VASP package, in conjunction with Phonopy [29, 30], was used to generate a series of structures displaced along the eigenvector of the 1L imaginary phonon mode and to compute their total energies, from which the corresponding potential-energy surfaces are obtained. Furthermore, the VASP package is also used as a calculator to obtain anharmonic phonon calculations in finite temperatures as described later. The remaining calculations were performed by the QE package. To simulate the thin-film geometry and reduce interactions between periodic boundaries, a vacuum layer of approx-imately 15 ˚ A is introduced. The Kohn-Sham valence states are expanded in a plane-wave basis. For PAW pseudopotentials, the kinetic-energy cutoffs are set to 50 Ry for the wave functions and 500 Ry for the charge density. For norm-conserving pseudopotentials, the corresponding cutoffs are 90 and 360 Ry, respectively. The crystal structures are visualized using the VESTA package [31]. Structural optimizations are carried out until the Hellmann-Feynman force acting on each atom is less than 1 × 10 −3 eV/˚ A. The samplings of electronic and phonon momenta in Brillouin zones (BZs) were done with k- and q-mesh, associated with grid spacing of 2π × 0.015 and 2 π × 0.045 ˚ A−1, respectively, whereupon EPC matrix elements gνmn (k, q) were calculated [32], which quantify the scattering amplitude between elec-tronic states ( k,m) and ( k + q,n) via phonon modes (q, ν), with m(n) and ν being electronic and phonon band indexes, respectively. Subsequently, the above quantities were interpolated [33] onto much denser grids with grid spacing of 2π × 0.0018 (k-grid) and 2π × 0.0036 ˚ A−1 (q-grid). Based on the above grids, the EPC-related quantities, including generalized static electronic susceptibility (χqν ), Eliashberg function (α2F (ω)), and momentum-resolved EPC constants (λqν ), were calculated. The electron-momentum-resolved superconducting gaps on the Fermi surface at temperature T , denoted as ∆k(T ), were determined by solving the anisotropic Migdal-Eliashberg equations on an imaginary axis and then analytically continued to the real axis using Pad´ e functions [34]. In solving the equations, the Kohn-Sham states within 200 meV around the Fermi level are included, and the Matsubara frequencies are cutoff at 0.3 eV. Anharmonic phonon calculations were performed us-ing the stochastic self-consistent harmonic approxima-tion (SSCHA) [35–37], a nonperturbative method that accounts for anharmonicity arising from both thermal and quantum fluctuations. To calculate the anharmonic phonon of the 1L in finite temperatures, we use 2000 con-figurations with 6 ×6 supercells in each population, to ob-tain the converged free energy Hessian. Machine learning potentials, developed using the deep potential molecular dynamics method [38, 39], are employed to model atomic interactions at various temperatures, enabling more effi-cient computation of the configurations in each popula-tion. The training sets comprise DFT-calculated ener-gies, forces, and external pressures for 1000 configura-tions generated by SSCHA in each temperature. The DFT calculations are performed by the VASP package with the same precision as the electronic structure cal-culations described earlier. To achieve optimal concor-dance between DFT-computed properties and those pre-dicted by the machine learning potential, the loss func-tion—encompassing energy, force, and external pressure contributions—undergoes mini-mization through 4 × 10 6

iterative optimization steps.   

> III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS A. Dynamical instability in 1L CoTe 2

Bulk hexagonal CoTe 2 can be regarded as AA-stacked CoTe 2 1Ls separated by an interlayer spacing, which is calculated to be 2.66 ˚ A in this work. Within each 1L, each Co atom resides at the center of an octahedron co-ordinated by six neighboring Te atoms. Our calculated lattice parameters (a = 3.75 ˚ A, c = 5.45 ˚ A) for bulk CoTe 2 are in close agreement with a recent report (a = 3.80 ˚ A, c = 5.41 ˚ A) [13]. Furthermore, the electronic band structure we obtain for bulk CoTe 2 (Fig. S1 [40]) is consistent with both the theoretical results and the angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy measurements pre-sented in the same study [13]. These agreements support the soundness of our computational setup and strengthen confidence in our description of hexagonal CoTe 2. We 3               

> FIG. 1. (a) Side and top views of the 2L CoTe 2crystal structure. Lattice-dynamical properties of 1L CoTe 2are shown in (b-g): (b) the ωqνcalculated using an electron broadening of 0.01 Ry, and projected onto Te zand Co xy vibrations, where the blue (orange) symbol size is proportional to the Te z(Co xy ) contribution; (c) vibration-resolved phonon density of states; (d) harmonic ωqν, and anharmonic ωqνobtained from the SSCHA free-energy Hessian at selected temperatures; (e) potential-energy surfaces along the eigen-displacement of the imaginary mode at M (upper panel) and of one imaginary mode at K (lower panel). Insets in (e) display the corresponding phonon polarization vectors in top and side views. (f, g) The Minimum phonon frequency as a function of charge doping and biaxial strain, respectively; the insets show the acoustic-branch dispersions at three representative doping levels and three biaxial strains, respectively.

next turn to the investigation of 1L CoTe 2.Interestingly, our phonon calculations indicate that 1L CoTe 2 is dynamically unstable, in contrast to isostruc-tural 1L NiTe 2 [41], containing the neighboring 3d tran-sition metal of Ni. As shown in Fig. 1(b), the phonon dispersion ( ωqν ) exhibits imaginary frequencies near the M and K points, originating from two acoustic branches. The most unstable modes occur at the midpoint of the M–K path (MK/2). According to the vibration-resolved phonon density of states (PHDOS) in Fig. 1(c), these imaginary modes are dominated by out-of-plane vibra-tions of Te atoms (Te z ) and in-plane vibrations of Co atoms (Co xy ). This assignment is further corroborated by the real-space eigenvectors of the imaginary modes at the M and K points (Fig. 1(e)), which clearly feature Te z and Co xy character. Displacing atoms along these eigenvectors yields double-well potential energy surfaces (PES) as shown in Fig. 1(e), consistent with the presence of imaginary phonon frequencies. ωqν computed using different pseudopotentials (see Fig. S2 [40]) also lead to the same conclusion. Moreover, when anharmonic effects at finite temperature are included using the SSCHA, the dynamical instability is suppressed by thermal fluctua-tions. As shown in Fig. 1(d), the imaginary modes pro-gressively harden with increasing temperature and be-come entirely positive at 300 K. Taken together, these results suggest that 1L CoTe 2 is dynamically unstable at low temperature, with the instability primarily asso-ciated with Te z and Co xy vibrations. Such an intrinsic instability may help rationalize the experimentally re-ported difficulty in stabilizing 1L CoTe 2 on SiO 2/Si [15]. We further examine how in-plane biaxial strain and charge doping affect the dynamical stability. Fig. 1(f) summarizes the dependence of the minimum phonon en-ergy ( ωmin ) on biaxial strain and carrier doping. Over the strain range from −5% (biaxial compression) to +5% (bi-axial tension), ωmin remains below −5.5 meV, indicating persistent dynamical instability. Regarding doping, hole doping drives ωmin to more negative values, thereby en-hancing the instability, while electron doping increases 

ωmin , progressively suppressing it. The variation of ωmin 

with doping can be rationalized, as the Fermi surface of the 1L consists of hole pockets, as we will show later. The 

ωmin reaches zero only above an electron-doping level of approximately −0.12 e /f.u., at which point the system becomes dynamically stable. Overall, these calculations show that the dynamical instability of 1L CoTe 2 persists under moderate in-plane strain and charge doping, but is fully removed under sufficiently strong electron doping. To gain deeper insight into the microscopic ori-gin of the dynamical instability in the 1L, we evalu-ate its electron-phonon coupling (EPC), since in many transition-metal compounds imaginary phonon frequen-cies are often associated with excessively strong EPC 4                  

> FIG. 2. Calculated quantities elucidating the mechanism of phonon softening in 1L CoTe 2are summarized in (a–f). (a) The ωqνcomputed with a relatively large electronic smearing (0.018 Ry); the red symbol size scales with λqν.(b) Elec-tronic band structure with orbital projections onto Co-dand Te-pstates. (c) Fermi surfaces projected onto Co-dand Te-p
> states; double-headed arrows mark the qvectors where χq,ν =1
> is strongly enhanced (see panel (e)). (d) Map of ωqν=1 across an extended BZ. (e) Generalized static electronic susceptibil-ity χqν=1 . (f) Static susceptibility within the constant-matrix approximation, χ′
> q.

[42–44]. Phonon softening induced by EPC at branch 

ν and wave-vector q can be quantified in terms of the generalized static electronic susceptibility [45–47], which is directly related to the real part of the EPC-induced phonon self-energy: 

χqν = X

> k,m,n

wk|gνmk,n k+q |2 f (εmk) − f (εnk+q )

εnk+q − εmk

,

where wk is the weight of the k-point for BZ integration, 

f (εmk) is the Fermi-Dirac distribution function evalu-ated at the electronic energy εmk associated with Kohn-Sham state ( m, k). Within the constant-matrix-element approximation, the χqν reduces to the bare electronic susceptibility χ′ 

> q

:

χ′ 

> q

= X

> k,m,n

wk

f (εmk) − f (εnk+q )

εnk+q − εmk

,

which captures the contribution from Fermi-surface nest-ing, i.e., a purely electronic effect. As the EPC matrix el-ements gνmk,n k+q are only well defined when ωqν > 0, we recomputed the ωqν using a large electronic broadening of 0.018 Ry to remove the imaginary modes [48]. As shown in Fig. 2(a), the recalculated ωqν display pronounced softening near the M and K points, with the most pro-nounced dip occurring along the M–K path. This is more clearly visualized in Fig. 2(d), which plots the distribu-tion of the lowest branch, ωqν=1 , in an extended BZ. The above feature is consistent with the ωqν obtained using a regular electronic smearing (Fig. 1(b)). Based on the recalculated ωqν , we evaluated χqν=1 and χ′ 

> q

, as shown in Figs. 2(e) and 2(f), respectively. A direct compar-ison shows that χ′ 

> q

(Fig. 2(f)) is strongly enhanced in broad regions centered at the M points. After includ-ing gνmk,n k+q , these broad high-χ′ regions collapse into isolated hotspots along M–K paths, coincided with the 

q vectors where the strongest phonon softening occurs (Fig. 2(d)). The above results indicate that the phonon softening in the 1L is predominantly driven by the EPC matrix elements around the wave vectors of MK/2. The pronounced EPC can be traced to inter-pocket scattering between the p–d-hybridized electronic states. Fig. 2(b) shows the orbital-projected band structure of the 1L, resolved into d orbital states of Co atoms (Co-

d) and p orbital states of Te atoms (Te-p). The calcu-lated band structure is consistent with previous studies [15, 17, 20]. One can see in Fig. 2(b) that along the Γ– M and Γ–K directions, two bands cross the Fermi level, giving rise to two hole pockets centered at Γ. The en-ergy states near the Fermi surface are dominated by hybridized Co-d and Te-p character. More specifically, the inner hole pocket has a larger Co-d weight, whereas the outer pocket has comparable Co-d and Te-p weights (Fig. 2(c)). We find that these two pockets are mutually nested by q vectors, of which χqν=1 is large. In Fig. 2(c), two representative nesting vectors are indicated by red double-headed arrows, which connect substantial por-tions of the inner and outer pockets. These two nesting vectors exhibit pronounced χqν=1 , as shown in Fig. 2(e). The above results indicate that the dynamical instability in the 1L is primarily driven by the enhanced EPC near the wave vectors of MK/2, arising from inter-pocket scat-tering, which is associated with p–d-hybridized electronic states.  

> B. Dynamical stability of 2L CoTe 2

Interestingly, we find that the dynamical instability is suppressed when going from the 1L to the 2L struc-ture. Fig. 3(a) shows the ωqν of 2L CoTe 2. With the exception of a very small region of q near the Γ point, in which a few imaginary modes emerge (the lowest en-ergy about −0.29 meV), all ωqν are positive. The weak 5                   

> FIG. 3. Calculated quantities elucidating effect of interlayer coupling in 2L CoTe 2are summarized in (a–h). (a) The ωqν
> projected onto Te zand Co xy vibrations; the blue (orange) symbol size scales with the Te z(Co xy ) contribution. (b) Vibration-resolved phonon density of states; (c) Potential-energy surfaces for an AA-stacked bilayer constructed from two 1L CoTe 2sheets at different interlayer separations, with atomic displacements along the eigenvectors of the 1L imaginary mode at M (upper) and K (lower) (Fig. 1(e)). (d) Fermi surfaces of the 2L (solid) and 1L (dashed) CoTe 2.(e,g) Electronic band structures of 1L and 2L, respectively, projected onto the Te-pxy and Te-pzstates. (f) Schematic of the interlayer-coupling-induced band splitting at the Γ when going from a 1L to a 2L CoTe 2.(h) Planar integral (along xy ) of charge-density difference for 2L CoTe 2relative to two isolated 1Ls, (∆ ρ(z)), which quantifies net charge accumulation/depletion per zplane along the stacking direction. See Fig. S3 [40] for more details.

imaginary modes are attributable to numerical noise and are therefore negligible. By comparing the ωqν and the PHDOS of the 1L (Figs. 1(b) and 1(c)) with those of the 2L (Figs. 3(a) and 3(b)), it is evident that the imaginary phonon modes in the two lowest branches—associated with Te z and Co xy vibrations—are fully eliminated in the 2L. These instabilities evolve into phonon modes that exhibit locally flattened dispersions in the vicinity of the M and K points, with characteristic energies of about 5.1, 7.3, and 8.4 meV, thereby producing the three cor-responding PHDOS peaks in Fig. 3(b). These modes are relevant to the superconductivity in the 2L, as discussed later. The absence of imaginary phonon modes in the 2L indicates that interlayer coupling is crucial for stabiliz-ing the structure. To verify this conjecture, we con-structed 2L structures with different interlayer spacings and calculated the potential energy surfaces (PESs) along the atomic displacement directions, corresponding to the imaginary modes at the M and K points of the 1L (in-sets of Fig. 1(e)). As shown in Fig. 3(c), when the in-terlayer spacing exceeds 17 ˚ A, the interlayer coupling is weak, and the PESs at both the M and K points exhibit a concave shape, consistent with the 1L results. As the interlayer spacing decreases toward the fully relaxed bi-layer distance (2.66 ˚ A), the PES gradually evolves from concave to convex, corresponding to positive vibrational frequencies. These results show that interlayer coupling is essential for stabilizing the 2L structure. The under-lying mechanism is analyzed below from an electronic-structure perspective. We first examine how the electronic structure evolves from the 1L to the 2L. Figs. 3(e) and 3(g) show the band structures of the 1L and 2L, respectively. The most prominent change is that the two bands crossing the Fermi level in the 1L split into pairs in the 2L due to interlayer coupling. Furthermore, a new band appears in the 2L. It disperses along the Γ–M direction, crosses the Fermi level near the M point, extends up to about 1.5 eV, and forms a band maximum near the Γ point. Fig. 3(f) il-lustrates this band splitting behavior using the electronic states at the Γ point as an example. These evolutions in the electronic structure indicate that a Lifshitz transi-tion [49] occurs in the 2L due to interlayer coupling. The band splitting leads to a substantial reconstruction of the Fermi surface. As shown in Fig. 3(d), five Fermi pock-ets are present in the 2L. Based on the corresponding band structure in Fig. 3(g), they are identified as hole pockets. More specifically, the outermost petal-shaped pockets pointing toward the K and K ′ points originate from the new pockets induced by the Lifshitz transition, while the remaining four pockets result from the splitting 6of the two hole pockets in the 1L. Furthermore, the split hole pockets are significantly smaller than the original hole pockets in the 1L (see Fig. 3(d)). Overall, the most significant changes in the 2L are the emergence of an additional hole pocket associated with the Lifshitz tran-sition, and the splitting and shrinkage of the original 1L hole pockets. These electronic structure changes arise from charge redistribution induced by interlayer coupling. When two 1Ls approach to form a 2L system, the electronic den-sity undergoes pronounced reconstruction. As shown in Fig. 3(h), the electron density associated with the out-of-plane pz orbitals of Te atoms (Te-pz ) on both sides of the interlayer region is significantly reduced. Concurrently, there is a notable enhancement of electron density both in the middle of the van der Waals gap (along the Te-Te bonding direction) and within the in-plane directions of the Te atoms (see Fig. S3 for more details [40]). This indicates that these Te-pz electrons from different layers hybridize to form interlayer (quasi) bonds, accompanied by partial charge transfer to in-plane orbitals. This elec-tronic reconstruction naturally explains the pronounced splitting of pz -orbital-related bands and the occurrence of the Lifshitz transition in the 2L: as the Te-pz orbitals evolve from fully occupied to partially occupied, the orig-inal hole pockets effectively experience electron doping and shrink. Based on these results, the mechanism of the stabi-lization of the 2L crystal structure can be understood as follows. On the one hand, the formation of interlayer Te–Te bonds strengthens the force constants associated with Te z vibrations, thereby hardening the corresponding phonon modes. On the other hand, interlayer-coupling-induced splitting and shrinkage of the hole pockets sup-press the EPC strength near the wave vector MK/2 and its symmetry-equivalent points, which in turn effectively stabilizes the 2L crystal structure. The calculated real part of the phonon self-energy for the 1L and 2L systems (Fig. S4 [40]) further supports these conclusions. The stabilization of the 2L is consistent with experimental results that the resistivity of few-layer CoTe 2 exhibits no abrupt anomaly from 300 down to 2 K [15].   

> C. Emergent superconductivity in 2L CoTe 2and the SOC effect

As discussed above, the imaginary modes in the 1L evolve into low-energy modes with flattened dispersions in the 2L. This prompts an investigation of their super-conducting potential. We first examine effect of SOC on the electronic structure. Figs. 4(a) and 4(b) show the calculated band structures and Fermi surfaces with and without SOC, respectively. As the system preserves in-version symmetry, SOC does not lift the spin degeneracy of the bands but instead shifts their energies. A compari-son of the Fermi surfaces (Fig. 4(b)) reveals that the most pronounced effect is a contraction of the hole pocket clos-est to Γ point. This is also evident in the band structure along the Γ–M and Γ–K directions in Fig. 4(a). Mean-while, the outer hole pocket undergoes a slight expansion along Γ–M, compensating for the loss of states from the shrinking Γ-centered pocket. This electronic redistribu-tion results in a nearly unchanged density of states at the Fermi level, N (0), upon including SOC (right panel of Fig. 4(a)). Nevertheless, as will be discussed, the su-perconductivity is weakened due to SOC, primarily by the contraction of the Γ-centered hole pocket.  

> FIG. 4. (a) Band structures, density of states, and (b) Fermi surfaces of the 2L, calculated with SOC (wSOC) and without SOC (woSOC).

Furthermore, we evaluate the superconducting prop-erties of the 2L arising from EPC. The orange solid and dashed curves in Fig. 5(b) present the Eliashberg func-tion α2F (ω) and the cumulative EPC strength λ(ω) cal-culated with SOC included. The total EPC constant (λ) is 0.71, with the dominant contributions originat-ing from three phonon energy windows: 0–12.3 meV, 12.3–18.2 meV, and 23.5–29.2 meV, contributing 0.50, 0.08, and 0.13 to the λ, respectively. Notably, the low-energy phonons provide the largest contribution, ac-counting for 70% of the λ. This behavior is also evident from the momentum-resolved distribution of λqν shown in Fig. 5(a). To gain further insight into the microscopic origin of superconductivity, we plot in Fig. 5(c) the con-tribution of phonons in an energy range 3.50–8.15 meV (highlighted in Fig. 5(b)) to λq , written as: 

λwSOC  

> q

(ω1, ω 2) = X

> ν

Z ω2

> ω1

dωλ qν δ(ω − ωqν ),

where ω1 = 3 .50 meV and ω2 = 8 .15 meV, respectively. It can be seen in Fig. 5(c) that the q of these phonons are concentrated around a hexagonal contour centered at the Γ point, with its six vertices oriented toward the M points. A representative q exhibiting a large λq , which lies at the midpoint of one side of this hexagon, is marked with a double-headed arrow. Subsequent analysis reveals that these phonons predominantly mediate the coupling between electronic states on the two hole pockets closest 7                                 

> FIG. 5. Calculated quantities elucidating the EPC, the superconducting mechanism, and the SOC effect in the 2L. (a) The
> ωqνcomputed using an electron broadening of 0.01 Ry; the red symbol size scales with λqν. (b) α2F(ω) and λ(ω) calculated with and without SOC; the shaded region marks where SOC induces the largest deviations. (c) BZ distribution of λSOC
> q(ω1, ω 2)with ω1= 3 .50 meV and ω2= 8 .15 meV, quantifying the contribution of the phonon modes ( q, ν ) within the energy window [ω1, ω 2] to α2F(ω). (d) BZ distribution of ∆ λq(ω1, ω 2) = λwoSOC
> q(ω1, ω 2)−λSOC
> q(ω1, ω 2). The double-headed arrows in (c) and (d) denote representative qvectors where λSOC
> q(ω1, ω 2) and |∆λq|are particularly pronounced, respectively. (e) Histograms of temperature-dependent superconducting gaps ∆ k(T), for those electronic states, whose Kohn-Sham energies fall within ±0.1eV of the Fermi level. (f, g) BZ distribution of ∆ k(T) at T= 2 K calculated with and without SOC, respectively; the double-headed arrows are reproduced from panel (d).

to the Γ point, as discussed below. To quantitatively assess the superconducting proper-ties, we further take into account the anisotropy of the EPC. We calculate the momentum-resolved supercon-ducting gap ∆ k(T ) for states near the Fermi level at var-ious temperatures. The statistical histograms of ∆ k(T )are shown in Fig. 5(e). One can see that at T = 2 K, ∆ k

spans the range of 0.5–1.0 meV with SOC included. More specifically, a small peak appears around 1.0 meV, while the majority of ∆ k values are concentrated between 0.5 and 0.8 meV. By correlating these features with Fig. 5(f), which displays the distribution of these ∆ k in the BZ, we find that the higher-∆ k peak at approximately 1.0 meV mainly originates from the hole pocket closest to the Γ point, whereas the ∆ k in the range of 0.5–0.8 meV are as-signed to the remaining four hole pockets. A direct com-parison between Fig. 5(f) and the double-headed arrows in Fig. 5(c) further confirms that the electronic states dominating the EPC are primarily located on the two innermost hole pockets, indicating that the EPC in 2L CoTe 2 mainly originates from inter-pocket scattering be-tween these two hole pockets. Furthermore, as the tem-perature increases, ∆ k decreases continuously and even-tually vanishes at around 4.7 K, indicating a Tc of ap-proximately 4.7 K. Finally, we examine the influence of SOC on the super-conducting behavior. The blue curves in Fig. 5(b) show 

α2F (ω) and λ(ω) obtained without SOC. Compared with the SOC-included results, the most pronounced differ-ence is the suppression of α2F (ω) in the energy window of 3.50–8.15 meV (shaded region in Fig. 5(b)), which re-duces the λ from 0.83 to 0.71. To elucidate the micro-scopic origin of this suppression, we show in Fig. 5(d) the difference of λq (∆ λq ) calculated without and with SOC, contributed by the phonons within this energy window. The ∆ λq can be written as: ∆λq (ω1, ω 2) = λwoSOC  

> q

(ω1, ω 2) − λwSOC  

> q

(ω1, ω 2).

Fig. 5(d) shows that without SOC, the q with the strongest coupling form an approximately sixfold-symmetric ring centered at Γ, with a representative vec-tor marked by a vertical red double-headed arrow. As shown in Fig. 5(g), the electronic states nested by this vector lie on the two hole pockets closest to Γ, similar to the SOC case described earlier. Consequently, these two pockets exhibit relatively large ∆ k, while the re-maining hole pockets show smaller ∆ k, giving rise to the anisotropy in the EPC and a broader ∆ k distribu-tion in energy without SOC (Fig. 5(e)). When SOC is included, the dominant q in Fig. 5(d) contract toward the Γ point, and the ring-like distribution becomes sig-nificantly narrower. This behavior originates from the 8SOC-induced shrinking of the innermost hole pockets as described earlier, which reduces their contribution to 

N (0) and suppresses inter-pocket scattering between the two hole pockets closest to Γ. Consequently, the number of electronic states with large ∆ k is markedly reduced, leading to a more concentrated ∆ k distribution. Over-all, these results demonstrate that superconductivity in the 2L is primarily driven by inter-pocket scattering be-tween the two hole pockets closest to the Γ point, and that SOC weakens this scattering by shrinking the inner pocket, thereby reducing the EPC strength. Given that alkali-metal intercalation has been pre-dicted to induce metal-to-superconductor transitions in transition metal compounds [50–53], we examine its role in the superconducting behavior of 2L CoTe 2. However, we find that alkali-metal intercalation instead suppresses the superconductivity (see Fig. S5 [40]). This suppression originates from the hole-pocket-dominated Fermi surface of the system. The electron doping via alkali-metal in-tercalation shrinks these hole pockets, thereby weakening the EPC and consequently suppressing superconductiv-ity.  

> IV. CONCLUSION

In summary, we have systematically investigated 1L and 2L CoTe 2 using first-principles calculations, focus-ing on their electronic structure, lattice dynamics, EPC, and superconductivity. Our key findings are as follows. Firstly, 1L CoTe 2 is dynamically unstable at low tem-peratures. This instability manifests as extensive imag-inary phonon modes near the M and K points, arising from collective Te z and Co xy vibrations. These unstable phonons exhibit strong EPC, driving inter-pocket scat-tering between hole-pocket states, which constitutes the primary mechanism for the dynamical instability. Sec-ondly, the transition from 1L to 2L stabilizes the crystal structure. The redistribution of Te-pz electrons between the facing layers effectively electron-dopes and shrinks the original hole pockets, suppressing the inter-pocket scattering and reducing the EPC strength of the unstable modes. Concurrently, the formation of interlayer Te-Te quasi-bonds stiffens the Te z vibrations. These combined effects, introduced by the interlayer coupling, eliminate the imaginary phonons, converting them into low-energy modes with locally flattened dispersions. These modes mediate scattering between the two hole pockets clos-est to Γ, yielding superconductivity with an estimated 

Tc ≈ 4.7 K. Finally, we analyze the role of SOC in 2L CoTe 2. SOC is found to shrink the innermost hole pocket, thereby weakening the EPC and superconduc-tivity. Our work demonstrates how interlayer coupling modulates structural stability and superconductivity in a two-dimensional material. These findings offer valu-able insights for understanding and engineering quan-tum phases in layered transition-metal dichalcogenides, and present a system exhibiting distinct layer-dependent charge orders. This work is supported by National Natural Sci-ence Foundation of China (12574264, 11804118), Guang-dong Basic and Applied Basic Research Founda-tion (2025A1515010219, 2021A1515010041), the Sci-ence and Technology Planning Project of Guangzhou (202201010222), and the National Innovation and En-trepreneurship Training Program For Undergraduate in Jinan University (202410559005). The Calculations were performed on high-performance computation cluster of Jinan University, and Tianhe Supercomputer System. Wenping Chen and Ziyun Zhang contributed equally to this work.                                      

> ∗fpzheng phy@email.jnu.edu.cn; corresponding author [1] T. Ohtani, S. Onoue, and M. Nakahira, Phase relation-ships and properties in the VTe system, Materials re-search bulletin 19 , 1367 (1984). [2] G. Duvjir, J.-A. Jung, T. T. Ly, N. H. Lam, Y. J. Chang, S. Lee, H. Kim, and J. Kim, Fine structure of the charge density wave in bulk VTe 2, APL Materials 10 (2022). [3] N. Mitsuishi, Y. Sugita, M. Bahramy, M. Kamitani, T. Sonobe, M. Sakano, T. Shimojima, H. Takahashi, H. Sakai, K. Horiba, et al., Switching of band inversion and topological surface states by charge density wave, Nature Communications 11 , 2466 (2020). [4] U. Chazarin, M. Lezoualc’h, A. Karn, J.-P. Chou, W. W. Pai, C. Chacon, Y. Girard, V. Repain, A. Bellec, S. Rous-set, et al., Spatially extended charge density wave switch-ing by nanoscale local manipulation in a VTe 2monolayer, Nano Letters 24 , 3470 (2024). [5] Q. Wu, Z. Wang, Y. Guo, F. Yang, and C. Gao, Orbital-collaborative charge density waves in monolayer VTe 2,Physical Review B 101 , 205105 (2020). [6] M. Liu, C. Wu, Z. Liu, Z. Wang, D.-X. Yao, and D. Zhong, Multimorphism and gap opening of charge-density-wave phases in monolayer VTe 2, Nano Research
> 13 , 1733 (2020). [7] Q. Wang, F. Wang, and C.-S. Lian, Unraveling compet-ing charge orders in monolayer VTe 2, Physical Review B
> 112 , 245410 (2025). [8] M.-K. Lin, R. A. B. Villaos, J. A. Hlevyack, P. Chen, R.-Y. Liu, C.-H. Hsu, J. Avila, S.-K. Mo, F.-C. Chuang, and T.-C. Chiang, Dimensionality-mediated semimetal-semiconductor transition in ultrathin PtTe 2films, Phys-ical Review Letters 124 , 036402 (2020). [9] R. Sun, J. Deng, X. Wu, M. Hao, K. Ma, Y. Ma, C. Zhao, D. Meng, X. Ji, Y. Ding, et al., High anisotropy in elec-trical and thermal conductivity through the design of aerogel-like superlattice (NaOH) 0.5NbSe 2, Nature Com-munications 14 , 6689 (2023). [10] H. Zhang, A. Rousuli, K. Zhang, L. Luo, C. Guo, X. Cong, Z. Lin, C. Bao, H. Zhang, S. Xu, et al., Tai-lored Ising superconductivity in intercalated bulk NbSe 2,Nature Physics 18 , 1425 (2022).

9

[11] S. Slathia, C. Wei, M. Tripathi, R. Tromer, S. D. Negedu, C. S. Boland, S. Sarkar, D. S. Galvao, A. Dal-ton, and C. S. Tiwary, Thickness dependent tribologi-cal and magnetic behavior of two-dimensional cobalt tel-luride (CoTe 2), 2D Materials 11 , 035006 (2024). [12] P. E. Siegfried, H. Bhandari, J. Qi, R. Ghimire, J. Joshi, Z. T. Messegee, W. B. Beeson, K. Liu, M. P. Ghimire, Y. Dang, et al., CoTe 2: a quantum critical Dirac metal with strong spin fluctuations, Advanced Materials 35 ,2300640 (2023). [13] A. Chakraborty, J. Fujii, C.-N. Kuo, C. S. Lue, A. Poli-tano, I. Vobornik, and A. Agarwal, Observation of highly anisotropic bulk dispersion and spin-polarized topolog-ical surface states in CoTe 2, Physical Review B 107 ,085406 (2023). [14] K. Kindra and R. Singh, Magnetism in two-dimensional CoX 2 (X=S, Se, and Te), from monolayer to bulk layered structures, Canadian Journal of Physics 102 , 604 (2024). [15] X. Wang, Z. Zhou, P. Zhang, S. Zhang, Y. Ma, W. Yang, H. Wang, B. Li, L. Meng, H. Jiang, et al., Thickness-controlled synthesis of CoX 2 (X= S, Se, and Te) sin-gle crystalline 2D layers with linear magnetoresistance and high conductivity, Chemistry of Materials 32 , 2321 (2020). [16] X. Zhao, P. Song, C. Wang, A. C. Riis-Jensen, W. Fu, Y. Deng, D. Wan, L. Kang, S. Ning, J. Dan, et al., Engi-neering covalently bonded 2D layered materials by self-intercalation, Nature 581 , 171 (2020). [17] Y.-Q. Zhao, Q. Liu, B.-J. Zhou, G. Yang, and S.-L. Jiang, Two-dimensional metallic CoTe 2 flakes for elec-trocatalytic hydrogen evolution, Rare Metals 43 , 5860 (2024). [18] W. Quan, Y. Lu, Q. Wu, C. Shang, C. Li, J. Hu, J. Wang, Z. Zhang, S. Zhou, J. Zhao, et al., Spontaneous Line Defect-Induced Co 4Te 7 Superlattices on SrTiO 3 (001) Featuring Flat Bands, Advanced Functional Materials 

34 , 2315831 (2024). [19] Q. Wu, W. Quan, S. Pan, J. Hu, Z. Zhang, J. Wang, F. Zheng, and Y. Zhang, Atomically Thin Kagome-Structured Co9Te16 Achieved through Self-Intercalation and Its Flat Band Visualization, Nano Letters 24 , 7672 (2024). [20] Y. Liu, Q. Gong, Y. Yin, M. Yi, and Y. Liu, Emerging 2D cobalt telluride (Co xTe y ): From theory to applications, Advanced Functional Materials 34 , 2310372 (2024). [21] J. P. Perdew, K. Burke, and M. Ernzerhof, Generalized gradient approximation made simple, Physical Review Letters 77 , 3865 (1996). [22] G. Kresse and D. Joubert, From ultrasoft pseudopoten-tials to the projector augmented-wave method, Physical Review B 59 , 1758 (1999). [23] D. Hamann, Optimized norm-conserving Vanderbilt pseudopotentials, Physical Review B 88 , 085117 (2013). [24] D. Hamann, Erratum: optimized norm-conserving van-derbilt pseudopotentials [Phys. Rev. B 88, 085117 (2013)], Physical Review B 95 , 239906 (2017). [25] M. Schlipf and F. Gygi, Optimization algorithm for the generation of ONCV pseudopotentials, Computer Physics Communications 196 , 36 (2015). [26] M. J. Van Setten, M. Giantomassi, E. Bousquet, M. J. Verstraete, D. R. Hamann, X. Gonze, and G.-M. Rig-nanese, The PseudoDojo: Training and grading a 85 ele-ment optimized norm-conserving pseudopotential table, Computer Physics Communications 226 , 39 (2018). [27] P. Giannozzi, S. Baroni, N. Bonini, M. Calandra, R. Car, C. Cavazzoni, D. Ceresoli, G. L. Chiarotti, M. Cococ-cioni, I. Dabo, et al., QUANTUM ESPRESSO: a modu-lar and open-source software project for quantumsimula-tions of materials, Journal of physics: Condensed matter 

21 , 395502 (2009). [28] G. Kresse and J. Furthm¨ uller, Efficient iterative schemes for ab initio total-energy calculations using a plane-wave basis set, Physical Review B 54 , 11169 (1996). [29] A. Togo, L. Chaput, T. Tadano, and I. Tanaka, Imple-mentation strategies in phonopy and phono3py, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 35 , 353001 (2023). [30] A. Togo, First-principles phonon calculations with phonopy and phono3py, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 92 , 012001 (2023). [31] K. Momma and F. Izumi, VESTA 3 for three-dimensional visualization of crystal, volumetric and morphology data, Applied Crystallography 44 , 1272 (2011). [32] S. Ponc´ e, E. R. Margine, C. Verdi, and F. Giustino, EPW: Electron–phonon coupling, transport and super-conducting properties using maximally localized Wannier functions, Computer Physics Communications 209 , 116 (2016). [33] A. A. Mostofi, J. R. Yates, Y.-S. Lee, I. Souza, D. Van-derbilt, and N. Marzari, wannier90: A tool for obtain-ing maximally-localised Wannier functions, Computer Physics Communications 178 , 685 (2008). [34] E. R. Margine and F. Giustino, Anisotropic migdal-eliashberg theory using wannier functions, Physical Re-view B 87 , 024505 (2013). [35] I. Errea, M. Calandra, and F. Mauri, Anharmonic free energies and phonon dispersions from the stochastic self-consistent harmonic approximation: Application to plat-inum and palladium hydrides, Physical Review B 89 ,064302 (2014). [36] A. Slimani, H. Khemakhem, and K. Boukheddaden, Structural synergy in a core-shell spin crossover nanopar-ticle investigated by an electroelastic model, Physical Re-view B 95 , 174104 (2017). [37] L. Monacelli, R. Bianco, M. Cherubini, M. Calandra, I. Errea, and F. Mauri, The stochastic self-consistent har-monic approximation: calculating vibrational properties of materials with full quantum and anharmonic effects, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 33 , 363001 (2021). [38] L. Zhang, J. Han, H. Wang, R. Car, and W. E, Deep potential molecular dynamics: a scalable model with the accuracy of quantum mechanics, Physical Review Letters 

120 , 143001 (2018). [39] H. Wang, L. Zhang, J. Han, et al., DeePMD-kit: A deep learning package for many-body potential energy rep-resentation and molecular dynamics, Computer Physics Communications 228 , 178 (2018). [40] Supplemental Material. [41] F. Zheng, X.-B. Li, P. Tan, Y. Lin, L. Xiong, X. Chen, and J. Feng, Emergent superconductivity in two-dimensional NiTe 2 crystals, Physical Review B 101 ,100505 (2020). [42] Y. Yan, L. Xiong, and F. Zheng, Charge orders in fully intercalated bilayer TaSe 2: Dependence on interlayer stacking and intercalation sites, Physical Review B 111 ,205437 (2025). [43] Z. Wang, C. Chen, J. Mo, J. Zhou, K. P. Loh, and Y. P. Feng, Decisive role of electron-phonon coupling for phonon and electron instabilities in transition metal 10 

dichalcogenides, Physical Review Research 5, 013218 (2023). [44] T. Luo, M. Zhang, J. Shi, and F. Zheng, Emergent charge density wave featuring quasi-one-dimensional chains in Ta-intercalated bilayer 2H-TaS 2 with coexisting super-conductivity, Physical Review B 107 , L161401 (2023). [45] F. Giustino, Electron-phonon interactions from first prin-ciples, Reviews of Modern Physics 89 , 015003 (2017). [46] J. v. W. Felix Flicker, Charge Order in NbSe 2, Physical Review B 94 , 235135 (2016). [47] X. Zhu, Y. Cao, J. Zhang, E. Plummer, and J. Guo, Clas-sification of charge density waves based on their nature, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 112 ,2367 (2015). [48] F. Zheng and J. Feng, Electron-phonon coupling and the coexistence of superconductivity and charge-density wave in monolayer NbSe 2, Physical Review B 99 , 161119 (2019). [49] I. Lifshitz et al., Anomalies of electron characteristics of a metal in the high pressure region, Sov. Phys. JETP 11 ,1130 (1960). [50] C. Hong, D. Wu, X.-B. Li, and F. Zheng, Multigap super-conductivity in lithium intercalated bilayer Mo 2C, Phys-ical Review B 109 , 064515 (2024). [51] D. Wu, Y. Lin, L. Xiong, J. Li, T. Luo, D. Chen, and F. Zheng, Enhanced superconductivity in bilayer PtTe 2

by alkali-metal intercalations, Physical Review B 103 ,224502 (2021). [52] G. Huang, Z. Xing, and D. Xing, Dynamical stability and superconductivity of Li-intercalated bilayer MoS 2: A first-principles prediction, Physical Review B 93 , 104511 (2016). [53] X. Liao, L. Liu, L. Zhang, X. Zhao, C. Wang, B. Wang, Y. Jia, and J. Cho, Orbital-driven competition: Fer-romagnetism and superconductivity in Li-intercalated transition metal dichalcogenides, Physical Review B 111 ,L020505 (2025).