Title: Non-local Tunneling Spectroscopy of Inelastic Quasiparticle Relaxation in Superconducting 1-D Wires

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.26862v1

Published Time: Thu, 30 Apr 2026 01:12:10 GMT

Number of Pages: 13

Markdown Content:
# Non-local Tunneling Spectroscopy of Inelastic Quasiparticle Relaxation in Superconducting 1-D Wires 

Kevin M. Ryan, 1, ∗ Detlef Beckmann, 2 and Venkat Chandrasekhar 1, †

> 1

Department of Physics and Astronomy, Northwestern University, 2145 Sheridan Road, Evanston, Illinois 60208, USA 

> 2

Institute for Quantum Materials and Technologies, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT), Kaiserstraße 12, 76131 Karlsruhe, Germany 

(Dated: April 30, 2026) Non-local conductance experiments using tunnel junctions can provide valuable spectroscopic information on both the transport and relaxation of quasiparticles in superconductors, as these techniques directly probe the quasiparticle charge and energy imbalance even at mK temperatures. In this work, we employ mesoscopic three terminal Cu and Al NIS devices to study non-local quasiparticle transport over length-scales on the order of the superconducting coherence length in this regime. Via a dual-bias scheme, which utilizes detector biases both above and below the superconducting gap, we are able to extract the effect of quasiparticle energy imbalance via its impact on the self consistent pair potential by symmetry considerations. We observe non-local conductance features due to pair-breaking which are anti-symmetric with respect to the polarity of the voltage bias, with a sharp onset during single electron tunneling at energies around 3∆. We compare these findings with quasiclassical simulations including inelastic effects to obtain estimates of the energy dependent inelastic scattering time. In addition, we demonstrate kinetic effects due to a large applied supercurrent which can also be captured in this formalism and decomposed with respect to the particle-hole symmetry and supercurrent direction, and discuss further opportunities for the advancement of this method. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

When quasiparticles are excited in a superconductor, they contribute to both charge and energy transport over mesoscopic length-scales [1]. Such excitations are typi-cally either the result of pair-breaking due to photon or phonon absorption, or via the injection of charge cur-rents from a normal metal or superconductor at a higher chemical potential. By their nature, the properties of these quasiparticles depend significantly on their energy with respect to the superconducting gap, making non-equilibrium quasiparticle transport a sensitive probe of the dynamics and inelastic relaxation of charge carriers deep in the superconducting state. Of late, there is a renewed interest in quasiparticle re-laxation and recombination due to the emergence of su-perconducting qubits and other devices which are sen-sitive to the non-equilibrium quasiparticle density [2–4]. At the same time, techniques been recently developed to empirically study non-equilibrium quasiparticles at the mK operating temperatures relevant for these emerging applications. In particular, charge tunneling experiments via normal-metal [5–7] or ferromagnetic probes [8, 9] have been essential for establishing charge, energy and spin-imbalance relaxation rates for superconductors in this regime. This is possible via the function of Normal metal-Insulator-Superconductor (NIS) junctions to both inject and detect quasiparticles within the superconductor in   

> ∗Now At: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Boul-der, Colorado 80305, USA
> †Contact Author: v-chandrasekhar@northwestern.edu

the absence of pair-tunneling, as this allows for spec-troscopic examination of the underlying non-equilibrium distribution via non-local conductance measurements. Here, we report on the quasiparticle imbalance seen via NIS tunneling using a mesoscopic arrangement of tunnel junctions to probe quasiparticle dynamics in a 1D wire of ultra-thin Al. By optimizing the experiment to avoid Joule heating effects within the injector junctions and minimizing the superconducting sample volume, we en-able a dual-bias measurement of quasiparticle energy and charge mode imbalance over a length-scale comparable to the dirty-limit superconducting coherence length within the wire. Notably, we are able to discern a sharp drop in the gap during the injection of high-energy quasiparticles which cause pair-breaking during inelastic relaxation. We analyze this via the particle-hole symmetry of the resulting non-local conductance signal, and explain the effect theoretically via comparison to a quasiclassical model of the non-equilibrium distributions within the wire. By the construction of this device, we are also able to probe kinetic effects under a large applied super-current. In those experiments, both pair-breaking and the presence of a phase gradient leads to relaxation and interconversion of the charge and energy mode imbalance of the injected non-equilibrium quasiparticles, which can also distinguished by symmetry with respect to the super-current. Finally, we discuss the limitations of our present model with regard to explaining the full anti-symmetric non-local conductance spectra, and make suggestions for future developments of this technique. 

> arXiv:2604.26862v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 29 Apr 2026

2 

> II. THEORY

We begin with a overview of our method for injecting and detecting quasiparticles via NIS tunneling, including a compact description of the underlying quasiclassical theory of non-equilibrium dynamics and superconduct-ing quasiparticle transport. For a deeper discussion of the quasiclassical model for such an experiment, we refer the reader to the extensive literature on this topic (see Refs. 9–11 and references therein). To set things up, we consider the simple case of a dirty-limit superconducting wire of cross section A as a func-tion of position x. Throughout the paper, we will ap-proximate that the magnitude of the pair potential |∆| is constant along the wire for ease of calculations, and sim-ilarly we will include a gradient of the order parameter phase ϕ only where it is relevant. With these assertions, the spectral properties can be described by the Usadel equation ∆G + i (ϵ + iΓ) F − ζFG = 0 , (1) where G and F are the normal and anomalous Green’s functions, ϵ is the single-particle energy with respect to the Fermi energy, Γ is the lifetime (Dynes) broading pa-rameter, and ζ is the depairing parameter. We will take all energy-like parameters to be normalized to the pair potential ∆ 0 at zero temperature, and the position x

along the wire is normalized to the dirty-limit coherence length 

ξ = pℏDN/∆0, (2) where DN is the normal-state diffusion constant. The quasiparticle occupation is described by two dis-tribution functions fL (longitudinal) and fT (transverse) which are associated with energy and charge respec-tively [12]. At equilibrium, fL = n0(ϵ) and fT = 0, where t = kBT / ∆0 is the normalized temperature, and 

n0(ϵ) = tanh( ϵ/ 2t) (3) is related to the usual Fermi-function f0 by n0 = 1 − 2f0.The charge imbalance Q∗ is determined by the fT

mode as 

Q∗ = 2 eN 0

Z

N (ϵ)fT dϵ, (4) such that this mode entirely accounts for the imbalance of electron- and hole-like quasiparticles. Here N0 is the density of states at the Fermi energy, and N (ϵ) = Re( G)is the normalized density of states of the superconduc-tor. As we will discuss momentarily, a finite Q∗ is gener-ated via injection of charge into the superconductor via quasiparticles with |ϵ| > ∆. This charge is deposited by perturbation of the fT mode which lifts the chemi-cal potential for quasiparticles away from the chemical potential of the Cooper pairs by an amount 

μQ∗ = Q∗

2eN 0

. (5) We can similarly express the supercurrent in this no-tation as 

Is = I0

∂xϕ

2

Z

jϵfLdϵ, (6) where I0 = ∆ 0/eR ξ , jϵ = Im( F2) is the spectral super-current, Rξ = ρNξ/A is the normal-state wire resistance on the length ξ, and ρN is the normal-state resistivity. As we will later be interested in the case of finite ∂xϕ,we also note that orbital depairing due to an applied supercurrent[13, 14] can be expressed as 

ζ = 12 (∂xϕ)2 . (7) In this notation, the self-consistent pair potential be-comes 

|∆| = λ

2

Z ωD

> −ωD

Im( F)fL dϵ, (8) where λ is the coupling constant, and ωD is the Debye frequency. As a result, the non-equilibrium supercon-ducting gap is a function of the longitudinal quasiparticle distribution only. We note that strictly speaking, Eq. (8) should also contain a term with fT affecting the order parameter phase ϕ. Since the tunnel currents ≲ 30 nA in the experiment are much smaller than the critical current 

Ic ∼ 10 μA we neglect this term. Finally, the propagation of the non-equilibrium modes is described by kinetic equations 

DL∂2

> x

fL + jϵ (∂xϕ) ( ∂xfT) = IL, (9) 

DT∂2

> x

fT + jϵ (∂xϕ) ( ∂xfL) = RTfT, (10) where DL,T are spectral diffusion coefficients, RT is the charge relaxation rate, and IL is an inelastic collision integral. In the absence of a supercurrent, the charge and energy modes are decoupled. We can now consider how to use a pair of NIS junctions to simultaneously perturb the fL and fT modes via the injection of quasiparticles with |ϵ| ≥ ∆ and measure them at points along the wire. Tunnel injection drives the non-equilibrium distributions at rates of 

DL,T∂xfL,T = κIN (ϵ)δf L,T, (11) where κI = Ginj Rξ , Ginj is the normal-state tunnel conductance, and δf L,T is the difference of fL,T across the junction. Treating the normal-metals as equilibrium reservoirs, such that the distribution functions for elec-trons on the normal side of the injector and detector junc-tion at bias V are simply given by 

fL,T = 12 (n0(ϵ + eV ) ± n0(ϵ − eV )) , (12) we can obtain that the charge current injected is given by 

Iinj = − Ginj 

2e

Z

N δf T dϵ. (13) 3This includes both the bias-driven local current and the non-equilibrium driven non-local current. In most ex-periments of this type, Ginj is chosen to be large enough to effectively modify the quasiparticle distributions, but small enough to avoid inducing a significant supercurrent due to recombined pairs such that ∂xϕ ≈ 0. Using a sec-ond junction as our detector, we then expect to observe a similar current 

Idet = − Gdet 

2e

Z

N (Vinj , V det )



f (S) T (Vinj ) − f (N) T (Vdet )



dϵ, 

(14) where we have written the dependence on bias conditions explicitly. Here, f (N) T (Vdet ) is the distribution in the de-tector contact given by Eq. (12), and f (S) T (Vinj ) is the distribution function in the superconductor which can be obtained by solving the kinetic equations. Note that the injection rate for fL, i.e., the heat current through the junction, does not affect the observed charge current di-rectly. It does, however, affect the self-consistent pair po-tential ∆, and therefore the density of states N . Together with a supercurrent, it also drives the coupling term in the kinetic equations, and makes the detector junction a probe of the non-equilibrium fL when Vdet ̸ = 0. This construction allows us to identify a non-local con-ductance between two NIS junctions, which occurs when the injector junction drives the system sufficiently out of equilibrium that a change in the current through the detector junction occurs. From this, we will define the nonlocal conductance 

gnl = dI det 

dV inj 

. (15) For clarity, when referring to the local conductance of a junction, we will explicitly denote this via the uppercase 

G(V ). By our construction, gnl contains contributions which are distinguished by their symmetry with respect to bias voltages and supercurrent. To see why, we must first note that the symmetry of gnl 

with respect to Vinj is opposite to that of Idet from Eq. 14 after differentiation. With this, as the total charge imbal-ance μQ∗ depends on the charge of the injected carriers, we see that the fL mode yields a term in gnl which is even 

with respect to Vinj . Conversely, as the self-consistent ∆ depends on fL (heat injection), and is therefore even in 

Vinj , one finds that the resulting non-local conductance via fL mode imbalance must be odd with respect to Vinj .Then, considering the potential for intermixing between modes, one finds that the coupling terms in the kinetic equations from Eqs. 9 and 10 are odd in supercurrent ,while all other terms depend on the supercurrent only indirectly via the depairing rate (Eq. 7) and are therefore 

even in the applied supercurrent, yielding an additional distinct symmetry. Taken altogether, the bias-driven contribution of charge imbalance to gnl is even in injector bias and in supercurrent , while that of energy imbalance part is odd in injector (and detector) bias as well as even in super-current . The intermixing of the two modes via the kinetic equations is then odd in bias and in supercurrent . With this established, it is natural then to decompose the non-local conductance as follows: 

ga = 12 (gnl (Is) − gnl (−Is)) , (16) 

gs = 12 (gnl (Is) + gnl (−Is)) , (17) 

gsa = 12 (gs(Vinj ) − gs(−Vinj )) , (18) 

gss = 12 (gs(Vinj ) + gs(−Vinj )) . (19) These symmetries can then be used to separate these effects in experiment, as we will consider later.  

> III. METHODS

Three terminal NIS junction devices were fabricated via a conventional PMGI/PMMA based liftoff procedure on 1 μm SiOx on p-type Si substrates, using a tilting stage electron-beam evaporator with a base pressure of 4 × 10 −7 Torr. To construct the central superconduct-ing wire of the device, 8 nm of Al was deposited from a 99.999% purity source at a rate of 0 .5 ˚ A/s. The Al was then oxidized in flowing O 2 gas at a pressure of 100 mTorr for 15 minutes. To form the counter electrodes, 80 nm of 99.999% purity Cu was deposited at a 35 ◦ angle over the      

> FIG. 1. False Color SEM Micrograph of one device. The central superconducting wire was isolated via a liftoff step which prevented the formation of a parallel normal metal wire between the left and right reservoirs of the device. Traces of this liftoff process can be seen on either edge where this Cu feature is broken off. In the inset, we label the junctions A,
> B, and Cas discussed in the text.

4                                                 

> Junction Ginj Γ∆Te
> A24 .6μS≤1×10 −5μeV 266 μeV 61 mK B31 .4μS≤1×10 −5μeV 259 μeV 37 mK C24 .8μS≤1×10 −5μeV 270 μeV 86 mK Al Properties
> Rlwlmf p DNLTξJc0
> 1.45 kΩ 11 μm150 nm 2 .49 nm †16 .9 cm 2s−1†803 nm †65 nm †1.7 MA cm −2†

TABLE I. Properties of the NIS junctions and of the central Al wire. Junction values were obtained by fitting to a Dynes-type DOS as described in the main text. In all cases, the Dynes parameter Γ is negligible. Properties of the Al wire were determined from the normal state resistance measured above the critical current at 23 .5 mK. †Due to uncertainty in the Al thickness, the deposited thickness d = 8 nm has been used to estimate a lower bound for these properties. 

Al wire, which was then followed by a 5 nm Ti layer to passivate the Cu during liftoff and sample handling. By tuning the PMGI undercut, we are able to prevent the formation of a parallel Cu wire across the lateral extent of the device, as this feature is removed during the liftoff process. The junctions (and Al wire itself) are nominally 150 nm across and are spaced by 300 nm between centers. Each of the junctions connects to a single measurement lead, while either side of the l = 11 μm long, w = 150 nm wide Al wire are connected to pairs of much wider leads to facilitate four-terminal measurements of the Al and pro-vide strongly superconducting reservoirs. Anecdotally, we find that such arrangements where the overall num-ber of leads is kept small tend to be less sensitive to electromagnetic noise and show less thermal broadening. After liftoff, a pair of these devices were mounted to a non-magnetic printed circuit board using Ag paint and wire-bonded before being loaded onto to an Oxford MX-100 dilution refrigerator for measurement. Continuity of the sample leads was carefully considered to prevent spu-rious NIS junctions, which we find can be simply avoided by using a single metalization step for both the device and the wirebonding pads. In this way, the Al wire-bonds make galvanic contact to both the Al and Cu lay-ers in each lead. Unless otherwise stated, measurements were performed at a temperature of 24 mK, as reported by a RuOx thermometer on the mixing chamber of the refrigerator. Thermalization of the device was accom-plished via strong thermal anchoring of the measurement leads to each stage of the refrigerator, and it was further shielded by a copper radiation shield affixed to the cold plate. Room temperature low-pass π-filters with a cutoff of 800 kHz and μ-metal cable shielding were used to fur-ther suppress electromagnetic radiation. In the following results, we limit our discussion to a single device which demonstrated the least thermal broadening. Battery powered home-made summing circuits and ADA4530 based trans-impedance amplifiers (TIAs) were used to perform differential conductance measurements in combination with low noise Lock-in Amplifiers (LIAs). These TIAs were designed to be individually voltage bi-ased and operate at a gain of 1 × 10 8 V A −1. Typical excitation voltages were on the order of 5 μV at frequen-cies f ≤ 20 Hz for all measurements unless otherwise noted, and all pre-amplifiers were located within a vi-bration isolated μ-metal shielded cabinet. In local con-ductance measurements, the Al wire running across the sample is grounded on both sides, and a voltage is ap-plied by the TIA to measure the I −V response as well as the local conductance Gi ≡ dI i/dV i, where the subscript 

i denotes a specific junction in the three terminal array. For non-local conductance, two TIAs are used to simul-taneously bias two NIS junctions with the third junction left disconnected from ground. This allows for simultane-ous measurement of the local conductance of the injector, and the non-local conductance of the detector, as well as the dc-currents through both junctions. This particular non-local measurement scheme is closely based on those of Ref. 5 and 15, and follow the same sign convention from those works, such that current coming from the de-tector due to a positive injector voltage yields a positive non-local conductance. 

IV. EXPERIMENT 

For each NIS junction on the device, the local con-ductance was measured to ensure a strong tunneling behavior and observe the local density of states along the wire. The conductance spectra could then be fit to a Dynes-type model of the superconducting density of states (DOS) [16, 17] and extract the effective electronic temperature Te of the normal metal probes, as reported in Tab. I. In all cases, a well gapped spectra was ob-served without the need for a Dyne’s energy Γ, with only the height of the coherence peak maxima varying be-tween the outer ( A and C) and inner ( B) junctions due to thermal broadening. We posit that this higher than expected electronic temperature on the A and C junc-

FIG. 2. Normalized local conductance of the three junctions studied, measured at 20 .5 mK for all three junctions with the remaining two junctions floating. The normalization values 

Ginj and ∆ 0 were obtained via fitting as described in the text. 5          

> FIG. 3. Normalized non-local conductance due to charge-imbalance for all combinations of detector and injector. As described in the text, the spacing between the Aand Cjunc-tions is approximately twice that of the A/B or B/C injec-tor/detector pairs, which can be seen in the reduction of over-all charge imbalance signal.

tions is related to the construction of the leads: either the outer two electrodes are acting to shield the inner one from stray electromagnetic radiation, or are intrinsi-cally more sensitive due to the un-covered Al sections in the vicinity of the junction or due to their slightly lower normal state conductances. As a result of this asymmet-ric behavior, we have predominantly used junction B as a detector of the non-local quasiparticle conductance in the subsequent findings. The average value of ∆ among these fits can be taken as the equilibrium value ∆ 0 = (265 ± 5) μeV for the entire wire. From this value, we can estimate the clean-limit coherence length ξ0 ≈ ℏvf /∆0 to be 5 .0 μm. By addi-tional measurements of the wire resistance in the normal state via application of a large current across the Al, we can also determine the normal state diffusion constant 

DN and compute the Thouless length LT = pℏDN /k B T

at 24 mK to be 733 nm, as well as the dirty-limit value 

ξ = 65 nm by Eq. 2. Consequently the Al wires are expected to be reasonably 1-D and the junction’s spac-ing small enough to observe non-equilibrium quasipar-ticle distributions just after injection. These values are also reported in Tab. I, where we additionally report the electronic mean free path lmf p and an estimated upper bound for the equilibrium critical current density Jc0. 

> A. Asymmetry of the Non-local Conductance

To begin, we consider first just the charge imbalance signal that is observed at zero detector bias due μQ∗ .To account for differences in the area for each junction, we divide the measured non-local signal by the normal state conductance of both the injector and detector junc-tions (denoted by the subscripts) for the purpose of com-parison, as shown in Fig. 3. This signal is positive by convention and symmetric with respect to the injector bias (i.e. particle-hole symmetry), but obeys an expo-nential relaxation with increased separation between the junctions over a length λQ∗ . In Ref. 5, this length was seen to be maximal near eV / ∆0 ≈ 2, with the non-local conductance dropping slightly at higher energies, which was explained by increased inelastic scattering at higher quasiparticle energy. In the present device, the junction separation is on the order of λQ∗ and ξ, and the overall charge imbalance signal drops much more sharply with increasing energy when compared to Ref. 5, being re-duced by approximately 30% by eV inj /∆0 ≈ 3.5. We can see this transition in the inelastic relaxation of injected quasiparticles more clearly by biasing the detec-tor slightly away from the Fermi-level. For small biases 

eV det /∆0 ≪ 1, a charge current is also expected due to normal tunneling by Eq. 14 from which we can infer information about the energy mode imbalance. This oc-curs as, when the fT mode is excited, small variations in ∆ yield a non-local conductance via Eq. 14. This can be clearly seen in Fig. 4, where we demonstrate this effect in both the A/B and A/C injector/detector junction pairs on our device, for detector biases in the sub-gap regime where there remains negligible local conductance for the detector. The key characteristics of these results are the ap-pearance of strong “spikes” about eV inj /∆0 ≈ ±1, and the onset of further anti-symmetric components for 

|eV inj /∆0| ⪆ 3. Both effects also respect the same anti-symmetry with the sign of the detector bias Vdet . As these features appear strongly during injection at the gap edge (where the available quasiparticle states are mainly charge neutral excitations) it is reasonable to ex-pect that all of the observed anti-symmetric conductance here is associated with energy imbalance. Given this, and the corresponding reduction in charge imbalance at these energies, the reappearance of the anti-symmetric non-local conductance above |eV inj /∆0| ⪆ 3 indicates a transition in the inelastic relaxation rate of fully charged quasiparticles into charge neutral excitations. This could be expected to occur due to secondary pair-breaking via electron-electron or electron-phonons scattering which is sometimes referred to as quasiparticle multiplication [18]. In the A/C junction pair, there is additionally a slight “hump” near |eV inj /∆0| ⪆ 1.75. This is similar in ap-pearance to features sometimes seen in the local conduc-tance of these junctions, and could be a convolution of the phonon spectra to the tunneling conductance. As the detector bias is increased further towards the equilibrium gap edge, there is a reciprocal effect onto the non-equilibrium gap seen at the injector due to non-equilibrium quasiparticles there also. This can be seen clearly in the conductance of the injector junction dur-ing simultaneous biasing as shown in Fig. 5 for the A/B 

pair. There, the non-equilibrium gap at the injector junc-tion is sharply suppressed by the back-action of the de-tector, causing a shift in the local conductance spectra corresponding to ≈ 6% reduction from ∆ 0. Such a con-tribution occurs due to the self-consistency relation for ∆ 6       

> FIG. 4. a.)+b.) Normalized non-local conductance between the A/B and A/C junction pairs with a small detector bias. c.)+d.) and e.)+f.) Corresponding decompositions of the non-local dual-biased conductance data into its components symmet-ric/antisymmetric with respect to Vinj . All color-maps are identical between panels.

and the large DOS at the BCS gap edge. Note that the detector bias was not seen to cause a large correspond-ing increase in the Dynes parameter, nor in the effective electronic temperature of the injector junction, as was re-ported in Ref. 15 during a similar experiment. There, the authors argued that a large jump in the current due to Joule heating of the normal metal counter-electrodes dur-ing detector biasing dominated the quasiparticle trans-port by shifting the temperature equilibrium of the su-perconductor indirectly. Here, we see little evidence for this occurring due to the much lower lead resistance and normal state tunnel-conductance of the present devices, and the gap suppression is due directly to the injection of non-equilibrium quasiparticles by the detector. Considering again the non-local conductance measured in this same bias range, there is now a significant spec-tral density of quasiparticles at the energy of the detec-tor which greatly increases the magnitude of the current and resulting signal. In Fig. 6.a, we report this non-local signal measured simultaneously with the previous local data, over a limited range chosen to highlight the dominant anti-symmetric response for large detector bi-ases. This shows a clear extension of the spikes at the injector gap edge |eV inj | ≈ ∆0 up into the region where 

|eV det | ⪆ ∆. In Fig. 6.b, we plot the same dataset fully as a 3D contour, where one can see clearly that these spikes are located around ( eV inj , eV det ) ≈ ± ∆0 are are over 400 × greater in magnitude than the charge imbal-ance contribution considered before in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4. At higher injector biases we consistently find a rever-sal of the anti-symmetric non-local conductance which is also many times larger than the charge imbalance con-tribution. We have seen a similar non-local conductance previously during dual bias of larger devices in which the injector and detector spacing was comparable to λQ∗ , as reported in Ref. 7, and in several other test samples (not reported). In this representation, the effect generally ap-pears as antisymmetric lobes in the conductance over a mostly symmetric background. As we will discuss later in our theoretical results, this sign reversal is inconsistent with existing models of quasiparticle transport, leading us to suspect it to be a true non-equilibrium transport effect due to the simultaneous injection of quasiparticles into both junctions.  

> B. Non-local Conductance at Large Supercurrent Bias

As we have seen so far, NIS junctions can be made sensitive to the energy-mode imbalance via the gap-suppression caused by a charge neutral quasiparticle dis-tribution. We can use this effect to observe how quasi-particles re-distribute in the presence of external vari-7    

> FIG. 5. a.) Heatmap plot of the local conductance of the injector junction Aduring simultaneous detector biasing on
> B. b.)+c.)+d.) Results of fittings to a Dynes-type model for the DOS, plotted as a function of detector bias. For all fits, only the normal state conductance was held fixed, with the other parameters varying freely.

ables, such as a magnetic field (see Appendix A) or a large supercurrent injected across the wire. As our de-vices are constructed from an un-shunted Al wire, we are able to perform the latter test by using large series re-sistors on either side of the wire, and a floating voltage source to generate a current across it. As nominally no current is being carried in the normal metal layer (which is also isolated by a tunnel barrier from the Al) this re-sults in a pure supercurrent coming from the supercon-ducting reservoirs. This current is then drained via an additional low-impedance connection to ground out the left side of the wire, which maintains the potential of the superconducting wire near zero despite the large current and helps prevent a spurious voltage from being devel-oped across the junctions. To bias the device into the regime of interest, a small fixed offset voltage was applied to the detector junction ( eV det ≈ 30 μeV) and either the injector or supercurrent were swept. Just below the crit-ical current of a wire one expects depairing to occur by Eq. 7 leading to an increase in the overall relaxation and recombination rates for quasiparticles. As discussed ear-lier, the generated phase gradient also couples the fL and 

fT distributions, which will further perturb the non-local conductance spectra. To see this, we first sweep the applied supercurrent all the way through the transition into the normal state above the critical current Ic as shown in Fig. 7.a. By        

> FIG. 6. a.) Heatmap of the dual-biased non-local conduc-tance data for the A/B junction pair. The grey regions cor-respond to data outside the color-map. b.) Same data, pre-sented as a 3D contour over its full data range. Also shown are projections indicating the general shape of the data taken during biasing of either Vinj or Vdet , indicating the sign rever-sal of the signal with respect to the bias polarity.

tracing this out with respect to the injector voltage, we see that there is a linear reduction of Ic. As the critical current of the wire is on the order of 10 3 times the maxi-mum amplitude of the quasiparticle current injected, this is not simply due to the combination of currents, and is likely caused by the energy imbalance due to quasipar-ticle injection. As Is is increased, this leads to a rapid suppression of the pair potential, followed by a switch into the normal state for the entire wire. This is even seen below the gap for |JS | ≥ 1.5 MA /cm 2, where a fi-nite conductance was observed at the injector junction while the wire remained at zero resistance. We next consider the non-local effects, where we have repeated this measurement over a narrower bias range in order to minimize stochastic switching artifacts in the data. As seen in Fig. 7.b, the dominant charge imbalance signal now appears as a pair of lobes, which extend to biases |eV inj /∆0| ⪆ 2 and diminish with the magnitude of the applied JS . This can be understood in terms of 8         

> FIG. 7. a.) Heatmap of the local conductance of the injector junction as a function of applied supercurrent density and in-jector bias. The dashed black lines indicate the point where the total supercurrent exceeds the critical current during the sweep, and the data has been suppressed to ignore parts of the sweep beyond this where the device is driven normal. b.) Non-local conductance heatmap measured between the A/B
> pair over a narrower range of JSvalues under swept current bias. Only a slight indication of the non-local peaks are dis-cernible. The artifacts near zero current bias are caused by stochastic switching and retrapping which has been interpo-lated out of the dataset wherever possible. For estimation of
> JS, a cross sectional area of 1 .2×10 3nm 2was assumed, cor-responding to the total un-oxidized volume of Al, and should thus be taken as a slight underestimation.

the increased charge relaxation rate due to the depairing effect of the supercurrent (see the fits in Fig. 10). If we instead sweep the injector voltage at fixed su-percurrent, we find that we can directly observe the re-sulting quasiparticle spectra as well as trace out the lo-cal and non-local conductances based on the symmetry considerations discussed before. For instance, gap sup-pression due to pair-breaking can be seen in the inward bowing of the coherence maxima shown in Fig. 8.a, while for IS ⪆ Ic/2 one begins to see additional symmetric shoulders appearing at slightly higher energies, which we demonstrate in Fig. 8.b, clearly demonstrating the non-equilibrium/non-thermal state of the wire. Given the geometry of the device, it is possible that this may be in essence a proximity effect due to the superconduct-      

> FIG. 8. a.) Heatmap of the local conductance spectra mea-sured on the Ajunction as a function at fixed supercurrent bias. The total current on the y-axis corresponds to a range
> IS=±11 μA. b.) Line traces taken at 0 and 10 μA from the same measurement, demonstrating the non-equilibrium con-ductance spectra which occur with increasing supercurrent bias.

ing reservoirs themselves, where the gap will maintain its equilibrium value as the current is injected. In the non-local conductance, we see both a suppression in the 

Vinj symmetric component independent of the sign of IS ,as well as a broadening and sign reversal of the gap-edge peak which appears to depend on both the magnitude and the sign of the supercurrent (i.e., on the sign of ∇ϕ). This is most apparent in Fig. 9.a for eV inj /∆0 ≈ − 1 for large negative values of JS . As the local conductance spectra remain symmetric even at large IS , one is left to conclude that the fL and fT modes are being mixed per the kinetic equations.  

> V. DISCUSSION

To demonstrate the mechanisms which give rise to the asymmetric nonlocal conductance, we next discuss the corresponding components of the conductance via quasi-classical simulations of the device. We first consider the charge imbalance component symmetric in both bias and 9     

> FIG. 9. a.) Heatmap of the non-local conductance spec-tra measured simultaneously with the data in Fig. 8 on the
> A/B junction pair. b.)+c.) Corresponding decompositions of the non-local conductance data into its components symmet-ric/antisymmetric with respect to the injector voltage Vinj for each value of the injected supercurrent.

current, gss , as shown in Fig. 10.a as a function of bias for different supercurrents Is along the wire. The lines are fits of the data using the analytic solution of the ki-netic equation in the absence of inelastic scattering (and neglecting the coupling term). Only the initial increase of the signal for eV inj /∆ < 1.5 is included in the fit. For higher bias, inelastic scattering leads to a downward deviation from the fit [5, 19]. For Is = 0, the lifetime pa-rameter Γ = (1 .53 ±0.02) ×10 −3 is the only fit parameter. For Is̸ = 0, Γ is kept constant, and the phase gradient 

∂xϕ is the only fit parameter. Fig. 10(b) shows Is as a function ∂xϕ obtained from the fit, together with a fit to Eq. (6), with I0 = 29 .8±0.3 μA as the only fit parameter, slightly smaller than the estimate I0 = 30 .9 μA from the sample parameters. As such, the overall suppression in the magnitude of the charge imbalance signal under an external supercurrent can be understood in terms of the depairing contribution due to the nonzero ∂xϕ per Eq. 7. The contribution gsa , can be understood by simulating the change of ∆ as a function of injector bias. We do this by solving the kinetic equation for fL, inserting the distribution function at x = 0 into Eq. (8), and iterat-          

> FIG. 10. a.) Symmetric part gss of the nonlocal conductance as a function of bias for different supercurrents Is.Symbols are data from Fig. 9.b, lines are fits (see text). b.) Applied supercurrent Isas a function of phase gradient ∂xϕobtained from the fits in a, with a fit to Eq. (6).

ing until self-consistency is obtained. Strictly speaking, under non-equilibrium conditions |∆| should be a func-tion of x, while Eq. (9) assumes a constant |∆| along the wire. Since the junction distance is small compared to the length of the wire, we neglect this dependence here to keep the numerical effort tractable. Fig. 11(a) shows the self-consistent pair potential ∆ as a function of in-jector bias Vinj . Neglecting inelastic scattering (dashed line), the pair potential drops quickly with the onset of quasiparticle injection above ∆ 0 as the fL is perturbed, and then remains nearly constant. We can then com-pare this to the case where we include inelastic scatter-ing via the electron-electron collision integral for the fL

mode given by [20], with a characteristic scattering rate 

γee = ℏ/∆0τee . Here, τee is the equilibrium inelastic scat-tering time in the normal state at the Fermi surface at 

Tc, and we have taken γee = 2 · 10 −4 corresponding to 

τee ≈ 12 ns. Under these assumptions, the low energy behavior is similar to the elastic case for bias up to 3∆ 0, where the pair potential now starts to drop approximately linearly, as seen in the solid line of Fig. 11.a. Correspondingly, Fig. 11.b shows this via the distribution function fL as a function of energy for different bias conditions. Natu-rally, fL is generally largest just above ∆, and in both models decreases with increasing energy. Without inelas-10 

FIG. 11. a.) Normalized self-consistent pair potential ∆ as a function of normalized injector bias eV inj /∆0. b.) Distri-bution function fL as a function of normalized energy ϵ/ ∆0

for different injector bias. The arrows indicate 3∆ with the self-consistent ∆ for the bias point. 

tic scattering (dashed lines), the distribution function is nearly constant for large energy until it drops quickly to zero at ϵ = eV inj /∆0, reflecting the Fermi edge shifted by the applied bias. With inelastic scattering included however, fL is enhanced at low energy due to thermal-ization but drops suddenly at energies about ϵ = 3∆ (indicated by arrows). This occurs as, for ϵ ≥ 3∆, quasi-particles can release ϵ ≥ 2∆ by breaking Cooper pairs. As a consequence, the population of low-energy quasipar-ticles ( ϵ ≳ ∆) increases, and the pair potential is further reduced. This is significant as low-energy quasiparticles are most effective in reducing ∆. By a similar method, Fig. 12 shows the asymmetric part gsa of the non-local signal simulated using the self-consistent ∆ shown in Fig. 11(a) including inelastic scat-tering. The sharp peaks at e|Vinj | ≈ ∆0 correspond to the sharp initial drop of ∆, while the additional sig-nal above 3∆ 0 corresponds to the linear slope of ∆ at high bias. Note that this simulation only takes into ac-count the modulation of the local detector current due to the change dN/dV inj of the density of states. Therefore, the signal is also odd in Vdet . In general, the behavior closely matches that observed in the non-local conduc-tance (Fig. 6), with the exception that the sign of the conductance does not reverse as seen in experiment for in-jector biases ∆ < |eV inj | ≤ 3∆ and |eV det | > ∆. As such, the effect is not completely modeled under the assump-tions made in our treatment of the kinetic equations, leaving open the possibility for future developments of 

FIG. 12. a.) Asymmetric part gsa of the non-local conduc-tance as a function of injector bias Vinj for different detector biases Vdet . Symbols are experimental data from the A/B 

junction pair, lines are numerical simulations. The data are offset successively by 3 kΩ for clarity. b.) Heatmap of the simulated signal. 

FIG. 13. Asymmetric part ga of the non-local conductance as a function of injector bias Vinj for different supercurrents 

Is. Symbols are experimental data, lines are numerical simu-lations. The data are offset successively by 10 Ω for clarity. 11 this model. As a final comparison to our model, the asymmetric part ga (with respect to current only) of the non-local signal is shown in Fig. 13 for three different supercur-rent biases. Symbols are the experimental data, lines are numerical simulations including the coupling term, but without inelastic scattering. All parameters are taken from the fits shown in Fig. 10, with no free parameters left. Both the peak position and magnitude match closely with the expected kinetic mixing effect on the non-local conductance.  

> VI. CONCLUSION

The effect of inelastic scattering on non-local quasipar-ticle transport experiments was considered via compar-ison between experiment and quasiclassical simulations of the Usadel equations, both with and without inelastic electron-electron scattering. From this analysis, we are able to explain the predominantly anti-symmetric in bias contributions to the non-local conductance in this type of experiment by energy imbalance that is enhanced by the injection of higher energy quasiparticles with ϵ ≥ 3∆. These quasiparticles lead to additional pairbreaking with a sharp energy onset that has not been previously ob-served in similar experiments. By fitting to our results, we ascertain estimates of the inelastic scattering rate for this process. Via the design of our device, we could also consider the effect of supercurrent bias, which serves to kineti-cally couple the Usadel equations and leads to additional depairing. Experimentally this manifests as an evolu-tion of the components of the non-local conductance of different symmetries with respect to bias polarity and supercurrent direction. Such effects are explained by the symmetries of the fL/T modes, the depairing rate ζ and the form of the kinetic equations. Our results demon-strate a viable way of studying the kinetic mixing of these transport modes via symmetry decomposition of the non-local conductance which has mostly been con-sidered only in spin-polarized transport devices. Several of the additional non-equilibrium effects observed, such as the roughly linear suppression of Ic under bias and the non-BCS density of states seen during the application of a large supercurrent are also of interest, particularly for the research involving similarly biased superconducting nanowire devices. As a final conclusion, we continue to observe additional anti-symmetric behavior inconsistent with the present model provided by the Usadel equations, under the as-sumptions that the non-local transport is only described in terms of the fL/T modes and with equilibrium reser-voirs. The effect is associated with anti-symmetric non-local conductance for approximately equal in magnitude detector and injector biases above the gap, which are of the opposite sign as those produced by the fL mode con-tribution of our model. Based on our observations, it is likely that either the commonly used assumption of equi-librium behavior in the normal metal injectors should be reconsidered, or that there are more complex or coherent transport effects which occur during simultaneous cur-rent injection which are not considered by to our current model of quasiparticle tunneling. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, National Quantum Information Science Research Centers, Su-perconducting Quantum Materials and Systems Center (SQMS) under the contract No. 89243024CSC0000020. This work was supported by the Helmholtz Association through the program NACIP. K.M.R. additionally ac-knowledges the support of the Colorado School of Mines and Prof. W. Van De Pontseele during the completion of this manuscript. 

> Appendix A: Non-local Measurements with an In-plane Magnetic Field

Additional measurements were performed under an in plane magnetic field, oriented along the direction of the central superconducting wire using the A/B junction pair. In thin films, the field penetration in this orien-tation is such that a Zeeman splitting of the spin-up and spin-down quasiparticle bands is expected to occur[9, 21]. In the device considered in the main text, we did not observe clear Zeeman splitting of the density of states at our maximum field of 1 T, possibly due to an unex-plained degree of spin-orbit scattering which smears out the density of states. Nevertheless, the non-local con-ductance is modified considerably, being both reduced in magnitude (likely by quasiparticle trapping by vortices) and “stretched” abbout the line |Vinj | = |Vdet | as shown in Fig. 14. The effect in the subgap region (Fig. 15) is more akin a strong smearing of the charge and energy im-balance components, where now the inelastic scattering is broadened and no longer becomes sharply peaked at 

ϵ = 3∆. This could be due again to the contribution of trapping via vortices, or by the effect of Zeeman splitting of the energy levels involved during inelastic electron-electron scattering. 

> Appendix B: Details of the Model and Fits

For modeling the data, we have assumed an injector at the center of the wire ( x = 0), and equilibrium reservoirs at the end. We have used the following parameters (in addition to the ones given in Table I): 

Fig. 10— The kinetic equation reduces to 

DT∂2

> x

fT = RTfT (B1) 12 

FIG. 14. Non-local conductance data taken under an ap-plied 1 T in plane magnetic field along the length of the wire for the A/B junction pair. Bias voltages are normalized to the zero field equilibrium gap value. a.) Heatmap presen-tation, presented over the same limited range as in Fig. 6. The grey regions correspond to data outside the color-map. b.) Same data, presented as a 3D contour over its full data range, along with projections indicating the general shape of the data taken during biasing of either Vinj or Vdet .

with DT = Re( G)2 + Re( F)2 and RT = 2Re( F)∆. The solution for the spectral non-local conductance is 

gnl (ϵ) = κINκIN + DT/λ T

N exp( −| x|/λ T) (B2) with λT = pDT/RT. The convolution of gnl (ϵ) with the derivative of the Fermi function is the actual non-local conductance. To account for the left and right branches of the wire in parallel, we set κI = Ginj Rξ /2. 

Figures 11 and 12— The kinetic equation reduces to 

DL∂2

> x

fL = IL (B3) with DL = Re( G)2 − Im( F)2. The collision integral IL

is given by Eq. (16) of [20]. We solve the equation on an equidistant energy grid with spacing δϵ = 1 /40 using a standard numerical routine [22]. The collision integral 

FIG. 15. Sub-gap region of the non-local conductance data taken under an applied 1 T in plane magnetic field along the length of the wire. Bias voltages are normalized to the zero field equilibrium gap value. a.) Normalized non-local con-ductance between the A/B junctions. b.)+c.) Corresponding decompositions of the non-local dual-biased conductance data into its components symmetric/antisymmetric with respect to the injector voltage Vinj .

couples all energies, i.e., the problem has to be solved on the whole grid simultaneously. To keep the problem tractable, we choose a relatively small ωD = 10 and set 

λ = 1 /arcsinh( ωD) to ensure ∆ = 1 at t = 0. We had to choose a relatively large Γ = 0 .005 to smooth out the gap features to obtain reasonable convergence. Also, we only solve for one half of the wire with double cross section, i.e., κI = Ginj Rξ /2. We still assume ∆( x) ≡

const ., and insert the distribution function at x = 0 into the self-consistency equation Eq. (8). We iterate until self-consistence is obtained for each bias point on a grid from 0 ≤ eV inj ≤ 5 with spacing 0 .1. We then calculate 

Idet (Vinj , V det ) and obtain dI det /dV inj numerically. We neglect the dependence of ∆ on Vdet , since it should not affect the derivative w.r.t. Vinj much. 

Fig. 13— We solve the coupled kinetic equations Eqs. 9 and 10 simultaneously without inelastic colli-sions [23]. Here, we have to solve the problem for both branches of the wire, since the supercurrent along the wire flows past the injector junction. Without inelastic scattering, we can solve for each energy separately. We choose δϵ = 1 /50 up to |ϵ| = 3∆ 0.13 

[1] M. Tinkham, Introduction to superconductivity , 2nd ed., Dover books on physics (Dover Publ, Mineola, NY, 2015). [2] K. Y. Arutyunov, S. A. Chernyaev, T. Karabassov, D. S. Lvov, V. S. Stolyarov, and A. S. Vasenko, Relaxation of nonequilibrium quasiparticles in mesoscopic size super-conductors, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 30 ,343001 (2018). [3] T. Karzig, W. S. Cole, and D. I. Pikulin, Quasiparticle Poisoning of Majorana Qubits, Physical Review Letters 

126 , 057702 (2021). [4] J. Aumentado, G. Catelani, and K. Serniak, Quasipar-ticle poisoning in superconducting quantum computers, Physics Today 76 , 34 (2023). [5] F. H¨ ubler, J. C. Lemyre, D. Beckmann, and H. v. L¨ ohneysen, Charge imbalance in superconductors in the low-temperature limit, Physical Review B 81 , 184524 (2010). [6] M. J. Wolf, F. H¨ ubler, S. Kolenda, H. V. L¨ ohneysen, and D. Beckmann, Spin injection from a normal metal into a mesoscopic superconductor, Physical Review B 87 ,024517 (2013). [7] K. M. Ryan and V. Chandrasekhar, Enhanced quasipar-ticle relaxation in a superconductor via the proximity effect, Applied Physics Letters 127 , 072603 (2025). [8] M. Kuzmanovi´ c, B. Y. Wu, M. Weideneder, C. H. L. Quay, and M. Aprili, Evidence for spin-dependent energy transport in a superconductor, Nature Communications 

11 , 4336 (2020). [9] D. Beckmann, Spin Transport in High-Field Supercon-ductors, Ann. Phys. (Berlin) 536 , 2400054 (2024). [10] F. S. Bergeret, M. Silaev, P. Virtanen, and T. T. Heikkil¨ a, Colloquium: Nonequilibrium effects in superconductors with a spin-splitting field, Rev. Mod. Phys. 90 , 041001 (2018). [11] T. T. Heikkil¨ a, M. Silaev, P. Virtanen, and F. S. Bergeret, Thermal, electric and spin transport in superconductor/ferromagnetic-insulator structures, Prog. Surf. Sci. 94 , 100540 (2019). [12] A. Schmid and G. Sch¨ on, Linearized kinetic equations and relaxation processes of a superconductor near Tc, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 20 , 207 (1975). [13] A. Anthore, H. Pothier, and D. Esteve, Density of States in a Superconductor Carrying a Supercurrent, Physical Review Letters 90 , 127001 (2003). [14] P. Maier and D. Beckmann, Spin-dependent coupling of supercurrent and nonequilibrium quasiparticles in high-field superconductors, Physical Review B 107 , 054504 (2023). [15] S. Kolenda, M. J. Wolf, D. S. Golubev, A. D. Zaikin, and D. Beckmann, Nonlocal transport and heating in super-conductors under dual-bias conditions, Physical Review B 88 , 174509 (2013). [16] R. C. Dynes, V. Narayanamurti, and J. P. Garno, Di-rect Measurement of Quasiparticle-Lifetime Broadening in a Strong-Coupled Superconductor, Physical Review Letters 41 , 1509 (1978). [17] R. Meservey and P. M. Tedrow, Spin-polarized electron tunneling, Physics Reports 238 , 173 (1994). [18] G. Burnell, P. A. Warburton, and M. G. Blamire, Inelas-tic quasiparticle scattering and multiplication in super-conductors, Journal of Applied Physics 76 , 1105 (1994). [19] M. J. Wolf, F. H¨ ubler, S. Kolenda, and D. Beckmann, Charge and spin transport in mesoscopic superconduc-tors, Beilstein J. Nanotechnol. 5, 180 (2014). [20] I. V. Bobkova and A. M. Bobkov, Injection of nonequilib-rium quasiparticles into Zeeman-split superconductors: A way to create long-range spin imbalance, Phys. Rev. B 

93 , 024513 (2016). [21] P. Fulde, High field superconductivity in thin films, Advances in Physics 22 , 667 (1973), eprint: https://doi.org/10.1080/00018737300101369. [22] L. F. Shampine, P. H. Muir, and H. Xu, A User-Friendly Fortran BVP Solver, JNAIAM 1, 201 (2006). [23] P. Maier and D. Beckmann, Spin-dependent coupling of supercurrent and nonequilibrium quasiparticles in high-field superconductors, Phys. Rev. B 107 , 054504 (2023).