Title: Imaging the Meissner effect and local superfluid stiffness in a graphene superconductor

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.25807v1

Published Time: Mon, 30 Mar 2026 00:05:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
# Imaging the Meissner effect and local superfluid stiffness in a graphene superconductor 

Ruoxi Zhang, 1, ∗ Benjamin A. Foutty, 1, ∗ Owen Sheekey, 1, ∗ Trevor Arp, 1 Siyuan Xu, 1 Tian Xie, 1 Yi Guo, 1 Hari Stoyanov, 1 Sherlock Gu, 1 Aidan Keough, 1 Evgeny Redekop, 1 Canxun Zhang, 1 Takashi Taniguchi, 2 Kenji Watanabe, 3 Martin E. Huber, 4 Chenhao Jin, 1 Erez Berg, 5, 6, 7 and Andrea F. Young 1, †

> 1

Department of Physics, University of California, Santa Barbara, California 93106, USA 

> 2

Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba 305-0044, Japan 

> 3

Research Center for Electronic and Optical Materials, National Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba 305-0044, Japan 

> 4

Departments of Physics and Electrical Engineering, University of Colorado, Denver, Colorado 80204, USA 

> 5

Department of Condensed Matter Physics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel 

> 6

Materials Department, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara 93106 USA 

> 7

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA 93106, USA 

We report the observation of the Meissner effect in a rhombohedral graphene superconductor, realized via direct imaging of the static fringe magnetic field. In our few-micron sample, the onset of superconductivity manifests as a diamagnetic response that screens only ∼ 100 ppm of the applied magnetic field. Tracking the evolution of the resulting nanotesla-scale fields in real space allows us to observe the entry of superconducting vortices and map the local superfluid stiffness, ρs. Correlating fringe field signals from both Meissner screening and magnetically ordered states, we show that superconductivity onsets in the midst of a continuous quantum phase transition to a canted spin ferromagnet. Within the superconducting state, we find the temperature dependence of ρs to be incompatible with isotropic Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory and the zero-temperature stiffness ρ0

> s

to be linearly proportional to Tc, constraining future theoretical models of superconductivity in this system. 

INTRODUCTION 

The expulsion of magnetic flux, known as the Meissner effect, is the key thermodynamic property that distin-guishes the superconducting state from that of a ballistic metal. While the detection of Meissner effects is part of the standard toolkit for characterizing three–dimensional (3D) superconductors, for two–dimensional (2D) super-conductors the magnitude of the screening current is strongly suppressed. Indeed, in low density 2D super-conductors such as moire and rhombohedral graphene, Meissner effects have yet to be directly observed. In a 2D superconductor, the diamagnetic response— captured by the screening current density js—can be un-derstood within the London limit of Ginzburg-Landau theory as 

js = 2πk B ρs

Φ0



∇ϕ − 2π

Φ0

A



, (1) where kB is the Boltzmann constant, ϕ is the super-conducting phase, A is the electromagnetic vector po-tential, and ρs is the superfluid stiffness, which pa-rameterizes the energy cost of phase deformations (here Φ0 ≈ 2 × 10 −3 T · nm 2 is the superconducting flux quan-tum) [1]. In addition to ρs, the strength of the Meissner effect is controlled by the sample geometry. As a concrete example, immediately above a small disc of finite radius 

a in the presence of an applied field Bz , the screening currents induce a change in the fringe magnetic field ∆ B

given by ∆B/B z ≈ − a/ (2Λ) , (2) where Λ = Φ20 

> 2π2μ0kB
> 1
> ρs

≈ 1.2cm ·K 

> ρs

is known as the Pearl length [2, 3], and μ0 is the magnetic permittivity of free space. This is a far weaker effect than obtained in a 3D superconductor, where Meissner screening becomes per-fect in the bulk over a much smaller length scale, known as the London penetration depth λL. λL can be recov-ered from the 2D limit by considering a semi-infinite stack of 2D sheets with Pearl length Λ and interlayer spacing 

d as λ2 

> L

= Λ d/ 2. For layered superconductors with in-terlayer separation on the angstrom scale, then, λL may be smaller by several orders of magnitude, making the Meissner effect far more readily observable. Despite this suppression, diamagnetic response has been successfully observed in a number of 2D supercon-ductors. In a pioneering experiment, Tafuri and Kirtley used a scanning superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) to measure Λ from the spatial struc-ture of magnetic screening in the vicinity of a ‘Pearl vor-tex’ in a cuprate thin film [4]. Subsequent experiments have used scanning SQUID microscopy [5, 6] or scan-ning nitrogen-vacancy magnetometry [7, 8] to image the Meissner effect in 2D superconductors [9–13]. Notably, these experiments were aided by comparatively large su-

> arXiv:2603.25807v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 26 Mar 2026

2

FIG. 1. Meissner effect in R3G/WSe 2. a, Measurement and device schematics. The nSOT is mounted at an angle θ

relative to the z–axis, which is perpendicular to the sample plane. Transport experiments are realized with four contacts arranged on the right side of the device. The inset illustrates the applied external magnetic fields in the x- and z-directions as well as the fringe field pattern due to the Meissner effect. b, Rxx measured as a function of ne and D. The light cyan region corresponds to the superconducting state, characterized by vanishing resistance. The red contour corresponds to Rxx = 5Ω. 

c, Fringe magnetic field ∆ B measured at a fixed location above the sample A diamagnetic Meissner signal (rendered in blue) is associated with the superconducting region of panel b. A ferromagnetic region (rendered in red) is also visible at the upper right. d, Spatial image of ∆ B within the ferromagnetic state corresponding to the ne, D configuration marked by the solid square in panel c. An outline of the device is shown in overlay as a guide to the eye, while the solid square indicates the spatial position where data in panel c were acquired. The scale bar is 1 μm throughout this work. e, Spatial image of ∆ B

in the superconducting state, corresponding to the ne, D configuration marked by the solid circle in panel c. f, Rxx at fixed 

D = 0 .138 V /nm as a function of ne for different values of T . g, ∆ B, measured at the spatial point marked by the solid star in panel e, for the same parameters as the data in panel f. 

perfluid stiffness and sample sizes, enabling relatively large magnetic field signals. Flat band graphene superconductors have attracted attention due to the proximity between superconduc-tivity and correlated magnetic phases as well as their electric-field effect tunability [14–22]. Many outstanding questions motivate the development of thermodynamic probes of the superconducting state. In most graphene superconductors, the structure of the superconducting gap and the underlying pairing mechanism remain un-known; both questions could be addressed by measure-ments of ρs via the Meissner effect. However, measuring the Meissner effect in graphene systems is experimentally challenging due to the energetics of the flat bands. In two dimensions, ρs is bounded from below by its value at the Berezinskii–Kosterlitz–Thouless (BKT) transition where 

ρs(Tc) = 2 

> π

kB Tc [23, 24]. In Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) framework, the T → 0 limit of ρs is set by the Fermi energy EF /(8 π) = ℏ2n/ (8 m∗), where n is the car-rier density and m∗ is the effective mass, limiting the strength of the Meissner response in flat band systems where the expected EF ≲ 10meV. Compounding the experimental difficulty is the small size of typical sam-ples, which further limits the screening field strength. An 3alternate experimental approach used in two recent ex-periments [25, 26] leveraged the high frequency complex conductivity to infer ρs in moire graphene. However, the micron scale inhomogeneity typical of low-density elec-tron systems complicates the interpretation of the ki-netic inductance in terms of intrinsic properties of the superconducting state observed in transport. Direct, lo-cal measurements of ρs via the Meissner effect thus re-main a highly desirable experimental goal. 

> MEISSNER EFFECT IN R3G/WSE 2

Here, we use scanning nanoSQUID-on-tip (nSOT) mi-croscopy to locally probe Meissner screening in a rhom-bohedral graphene superconductor. Our experimental geometry is shown in Fig. 1a. The sample consists of a dual-graphite gated rhombohedral graphene trilayer (R3G) flake clad on one side with a WSe 2 monolayer and connected to four transport contacts. To map the fringe magnetic fields, we raster an ultra-sensitive nSOT tip with 1 − 3 nT /√Hz sensitivity (see Extended Data Fig. 1) in a fixed-height plane above the sample. The experiment is mounted in a hermetic cell bolted to the mixing chamber of a dilution refrigerator with a nom-inal base temperature of 30mK. In order to probe the superconducting phase diagram near Bz = 0, we fix the nSOT tip at an angle of 12 .5◦ relative to the axis nor-mal to the sample plane, and flux-bias the nSOT to its sensitive point with a constant 46 mT magnetic field ap-plied in the plane of the sample. The perpendicular ap-plied field Bz can then be tuned over a continuous range from Bz = −250 μT to Bz = 750 μT. To extract the magnetic signal, we apply a square wave to the bottom gate at a frequency f = 247Hz or 281 Hz, modulating the sample between the ne and D point to be measured and a confirmed nonmagnetic phase. Demodulating the resulting nSOT signal isolates the field-effect tuned con-tributions to the magnetic field, giving the desired static screening magnetic field, ∆ B(x, y, n e, D ) (see Methods and Extended Data Fig. 2). Fig. 1b shows Rxx measured at T = 70 mK and 

Bz = 150 μT . Consistent with prior work[27, 28], a ro-bust zero resistance state is observed over a finite range of D and ne when carriers at the Fermi level are po-larized to the layer closest to the WSe 2 (see Extended Data Fig. 3). Fig. 1c shows the measured ∆ B at a fixed position over the sample as a function of ne and 

D. We present the data in both magnetic field units as well as in units of the magnetic flux threading our 350 nm diameter nSOT, ∆Φ. The superconducting re-gion is characterized by a negative ∆ B–i.e., we observe a reduction in the magnetic field relative to the applied 

Bz = 150 μT . In addition, a distinct region of positive ∆B is observed at upper right; this region is associated with an orbital ferromagnetic ‘valley imbalanced’ state (see Extended Data Fig. 3 and Ref. [27]). To confirm the contrasting nature of the superconducting and ferromag-netic responses, Fig. 1d shows a real space map of ∆ B

in the valley imbalanced phase. Most of the sample area shows fringe field enhancement, consistent with orbital magnetic moments polarized in the direction of the ap-plied Bz . In contrast, in the superconducting state, ∆ B

is negative over a several-micron wide spatial domain, consistent with the out-of-plane diamagnetic response ex-pected for Meissner screening. The maximal diamagnetic screening field observed in Fig. 1e is approximately 30 nT, 5,000 times smaller than the applied Bz . Given the approximate superconducting domain radius of 2 μm, we infer a Pearl length of Λ ≈ 5mm. Surprisingly, the spa-tial pattern of disorder in the valley imbalanced phase is distinct from what we observe in the superconducting state. As an additional confirmation that the magnetic response arises from the superconducting state, Figs. 1f-g compare the temperature dependence of Rxx and ∆ B

measured above the diamagnetic patch. The diamagnetic signal onsets with the zero resistance state as a function of both ne and T .

> VORTICES AND LOWER CRITICAL FIELD

The energetics of Meissner screening also control the formation of superconducting vortices. Within Ginzburg–Landau (GL) theory, the balance between magnetic-field expulsion and the cost of creating normal– superconducting interfaces controls how the Meissner re-sponse evolves with increasing magnetic field. Due to their small ρs, 2D superconductors are strongly in the “type-II” limit, lowering their free energy by admitting flux as quantized vortices above a lower critical field Bc1.The onset and spatial organization of these vortices can provide a sensitive local probe of sample inhomogeneity. For example, preferential pinning sites reveal minima in the vortex free-energy landscape. While electronic trans-port measurements have shown evidence for vortices in graphene superconductors[29, 30], direct detection has been difficult because ρs sets the scale of the magnetic vortex signal [4, 13]. With this motivation, we study the evolution of the Meissner fringe field with applied Bz (Fig. 2a, Extended Data Fig. 4). For small fields, |Bz | < 200 μT, we con-firm that the magnetic signal reverses sign around B = 0 and remains approximately uniform in shape. As |Bz |

increases further, the spatial pattern of the magnetic re-sponse becomes more complex. While some areas of the device have a growing diamagnetic response (darker blue in Fig. 2a), in others ∆ B reverses sign. We associate the sign-reversal with superconducting vortices, as the applied magnetic flux is focused through the normal core of the vortex (Fig. 2b). This picture is made clearer by tuning Bz continuously. 4                                   

> FIG. 2. Spatial imaging of vortices and direct measurement of Bc1.a, Spatial images of ∆ Bat different values of applied Bz. Scale bar is 1 μm. neand Dare chosen at the center of the superconducting region (solid circle in Fig. 1c). b,Schematic of magnetic field focusing due to screening currents in the pure Meissner state ( Bz< B c1, left) and in the presence of a vortex ( Bz> B c1, right). c, ∆ Bas a function of Bzmeasured at the spatial position indicated by the circle in panel a. Near Bz= 0, the behavior is linear consistent with a constant diamagnetic susceptibility. At Bz=±Bc1≈200 μT, the flux changes sharply due to the appearance of a localized vortex. d, ∆ Bmeasured along the dotted line in panel a, for variable Bz.
> Xdenotes the coordinate along the dotted line with X= 0 in the upper left of the image in panel a. e, Numerical derivative d(∆B) /dB zfor the data in panel d. Orange regions denote constant negative susceptibility, while purple regions are associated with the entry of a new localized vortex to the sample.

In Fig. 2c, we show ∆ B measured at a single spatial posi-tion (open circle in Fig. 2a) as a function of Bz . Around 

Bz = 0, the dependence is linear with a vanishing sig-nal at Bz = 0, confirming the negative susceptibility of Meissner diamagnetism. At |Bz | ≈ 200 μT, we see a sharp change in ∆ B, localized over a small range of Bz

and associated with the appearance of a positive vortex signal in Fig. 2a. We identify this value of Bz as the empirically determined lower critical field Bc1 where the first vortex enters the sample. In Fig. 2d-e, we plot ∆ B

and its numerical derivative d(∆B) /dB z for varying real space coordinate corresponding to the dotted line in Fig. 2a. The numerical derivative clearly disambiguates the linear-in-Bz diamagnetic Meissner response (rendered in orange) from the sudden entry of localized vortices (ren-dered in purple). Notably, similar Meissner screening is evident at the same spatial position as the 1st vortex even above Bc1. This is as expected for the limit in which Λ far exceeds the characteristic length scales in the sample: it is well-established both theoretically [3, 31, 32] and experimentally [33, 34] that vortices in this limit have non-quantized magnetic flux, though the fluxoid (includ-ing current contributions) remains quantized. Because of the finite-frequency modulation of the gates, the superconducting phase is destroyed and re-formed at fixed applied Bz many times for each measured data point. Our results thus correspond to an average over many field-cooling cycles. The observed pattern, with clearly localized vortex positions, implies that the pinning sites for the first few vortices are not random, but rather reflect consistent minima in the vortex free energy landscape. One evident trend is that the pin-ning sites are correlated with spatial positions where the fringe field signal of the nearby valley imbalanced phase is negative, as can be seen in Extended Data Fig. 3a-d, pointing to a correlation between vortex pinning and 5mesoscopic inhomogeneity in the sample. It is notable that this inhomogeneity does not obviously manifest in the Meissner response near B = 0; evidently, the zero vortex superconducting state, vortex pinning sites, and valley polarized magnetic states respond differently to spatially varying moire potential, spin orbit coupling, or other sources of micron-scale inhomogeneity in the un-derlying sample structure.                               

> FIG. 3. Relationship of spin-canted ferromagnetism and superconductivity. a , ∆ Bas a function of neand D
> for a spatial position with sensitivity to both in- and out-of-plane magnetic moments (see Methods and Extended Data Fig. 5), measured at T= 210 mK and Bz= 750 μT. b,Schematic phase diagram showing overlap of superconduc-tivity (SC), the spin-canted ferromagnetism, and the valley-imbalanced ferromagnetism (VI). The dashed contour outlin-ing the SC at 70 mK (light cyan region in Fig. 1b) is shown as a guide to eye. c, High-resolution linecut of ∆ Balong the trajectory marked in panel a, which is symmetrized and anti-symmetrized in Bz=±100 μT. The antisymmetric contribu-tion chiefly shows the Meissner response in the superconduct-ing pocket, whereas the symmetric contribution highlights the in-plane moments (unaffected by the direction of Bz) coming from the ordered, spin-canted phase. d, Schematic of m∥and
> m⊥as a function of ne, based off of the data in panel c. In-sets show the spin -ordering of the K(orange) and K′(green) valley states, which are canted at higher |ne|and spin-valley locked at low |ne|.
> SUPERCONDUCTIVITY AND SPIN-CANTED ORDER

Armed with a local magnetic probe of the supercon-ducting state, we may correlate the onset of supercon-ductivity with the magnetic phases that occur nearby in the phase diagram. Nearly all graphitic superconductors fall within or near a phase with broken isospin symme-try, and WSe 2-proximitized R3G is no exception[27, 28]. The addition of WSe 2 to rhombohedral graphene layers enhances the strength of spin-orbit coupling on the prox-imal layer[35, 36]. Past experiments on bi- and trilayers found the emergence of additional superconducting pock-ets in the ne-D space[27, 28, 37–40], typically with much higher Tc that is found in the absence of the proxim-ity enhanced spin-orbit coupling. While the mechanism for this enhancement is not known precisely [41, 42], one theoretical proposal attributes the enhanced supercon-ductivity to the onset of ‘spin-canted’ order, arising from the competition between ferromagnetic interlayer Hund’s coupling and the enhanced spin orbit [43, 44]. In this pic-ture, superconductivity occurs in the vicinity of a contin-uous phase transition from a spin-valley locked to a spin canted phase, with pairing mediated by ferromagnetic fluctuations. Previous magnetometry experiments in the normal state of R3G/WSe 2 [27] indeed found evidence for this transition in the vicinity of the superconduct-ing region of the ne-D plane. However, the lack of a local probe of superconductivity precluded precise deter-mination of the coexistence and/or competition between superconducting and spin-canted order. To make a direct comparison between the onset of su-perconductivity and spin canted order, we leverage the difference in spatial structure of the magnetic fringe fields arising from in- and out-of-plane moments as well as their different responses to inversion of Bz and B∥ (see Meth-ods and Extended Data Fig.5). In Fig. 3a, we present ∆B measured at T = 210 mK and Bz = 750 μT, mea-sured at a point in the sample where fringe fields from in-plane moments are somewhat more pronounced. In addition to signals arising from the Meissner effect and the valley imbalanced (VI) orbital magnet described in Fig. 1c, we observed a broad region of slightly negative ∆B adjacent to the superconducting region but at higher 

D. This region is coincident with where previous nSOT measurements[27] found a phase with in-plane magnetic anisotropy, associated with spin-canted order (see Fig. 3b, where we show a schematic phase diagram). To characterize the relationship between supercon-ductivity and spin canting precisely, we decouple spin-canting and Meissner signals by symmetrizing and anti-symmetrizing the measured ∆ B with respect to chang-ing the sign of the applied Bz , in a nearby location with greater sensitivity to in-plane moments. With fixed 

Bx = −46 mT, we define ∆ B+( −) = 12 (∆ B(Bz =+0 .1mT) ± ∆B(B z = −0.1mT), and plot these quan-6tities along the dashed ne − D trajectory shown in Fig.3a in Fig. 3c. To within our experimental resolution, we find that the spin canting signal ∆ B+ goes continuously to zero, consistent with a second order transition. Su-perconductivity onsets at the edge of the spin canted phase, with the bulk of the superconducting region, and maximal Tc, observed on the high ne side of the tran-sition where no spin-canted order is detected. This re-lationship is summarized in Fig.3d, where we show the relationship of the superconducting ‘dome’ and the on-set of spin canted order at T = 210 mK. Notably, as shown in Fig. 3b, at lower T = 70 mK the supercon-ducting state extends even deeper into the spin-canted state. We thus conclude that superconductivity indeed straddles the quantum phase transition between the spin-canting and spin-valley locked states. 

> QUANTIFYING LOCAL SUPERFLUID STIFFNESS

The local fringe field ∆ Bz can also be used to quan-titatively determine local thermodynamic properties of the superconductor, particularly ρs(T ). In the absence of vortices, we are free to adopt a London gauge so that the phase-gradient term in Equation 1 vanishes, and the current–phase relation reduces to js = − 4π2kB ρs

> Φ20

A. To determine ρs, we iteratively solve the ‘forward problem’ in which we map a trial ρs(x, y ) to the implied fringe field response ∆ Bsim (x, y ) and compare this to the mea-sured ∆ B to determine a best fit (see Methods). Fig. 4a shows the best fit ρs resulting from this procedure for the T = 70 mK experimental data shown in Fig. 4b (ad-ditional data are shown in Extended Data Fig. 6). To determine the confidence interval for this fit, we take the pixel-by-pixel standard error from the covariance matrix of the least-squares fitting; the uncertainty in ρs derived from half-width of the 95% confidence intervals is shown in Fig. 4c. As a verification of the quality of this fitting, we show the simulated ∆ Bsim (x, y ) in Fig. 4d for easy comparison. Turning to the quantitative aspects of this analysis, we find that at T = 70mK, ρs is as high as 2 .3 K— approximately 6 times larger than Tc ≈ 400 mK deter-mined from the global transport measurements of Fig. 1f. Indeed, temperature-dependent measurements of ∆ B al-low us to determine the local Tc (see Extended Data Fig. 7-8 and Methods), defined as the temperature where a finite Meissner signal is first observed (Fig. 4e). While the microscopic origin of the spatial structure of both ρs

and Tc is uncertain, its existence allows us to examine the correlation between these two thermodynamic quan-tities. As shown in Fig. 4, ρs and Tc are correlated. The maximum local Tc matches the measured transport 

Tc of nearly 400 mK . Moreover, ρs is always consider-ably larger than local Tc, and thus the nominal phase fluctuation limit of ρs = 2 

> π

Tc. 

> TEMPERATURE DEPENDENCE OF ρs

The temperature dependence ρs(T ) below Tc is deter-mined by quasiparticle excitations and contains informa-tion about the gap structure. To study this in detail, we measure the local ∆ B as a proxy for ρs. As com-pared to acquiring the 2D images of ∆ B, from which ρs

is then determined by fitting, measuring ∆ B at a single point allows for longer averaging and thus increases the signal to noise ratio. Measuring local ∆ B also avoids sys-tematic errors introduced by the fitting algorithm when ∆B is close to our noise floor. Specifically, when the sig-nal to noise ratio is poor, the algorithm will attribute noise signals to unphysical diamagnetic screening cur-rents, leading to an overestimate of ρs. Conversely, the nature of fringe magnetic fields is such that local ∆ B is not always proportional to the local ρs. As a concrete example, fringe fields just outside the boundary of a su-perconducting region will be opposite in sign to those in the bulk. To mitigate this concern, we first measure 

ρs(T ) (via 2D imaging) and then focus on locations where 

ρs(x, y ) ∝ ∆B(x, y ) (see Methods); most obviously, this condition is met where ρ(x, y ) is at a (spatial) maximum. Focusing on these locations for ultra-high averaging lo-cal measurements of ∆ B(T ), we are able to measure a qualitatively accurate trend. We then fix the absolute scale factor between local ρs and local ∆ B from a two di-mensional image taken at the lowest temperatures where the signal-to-noise is highest and systematic errors intro-duced by fitting algorithm can be neglected. Fig. 5a shows ρs(T ) from one such measurement. Dia-magnetism onsets at a local Tc ≈ 350 mK. Qualitatively similar data is observed in several sample locations (Ex-tended Data Fig. 8). In a pairing limited supercon-ductor, ρs(T ) (or more precisely, ρs(T = 0) − ρs(T )) measures the density of thermally excited quasiparticles, constraining the structure of the superconducting gap ∆ [45]. For example, in a clean s-wave superconduc-tor, the quasiparticle density follows an Arrhenius law with ( ρs(T = 0) − ρs(T )) ∝ T −1/2e−∆(0) /(kB T ), where ∆(0) = 1 .76 kB Tc is the superconducting gap at zero T=0. At another extreme, in a clean nodal supercon-ductor, quasiparticles are excited even at deeply sub-gap temperatures, leading to a linear ρs(T ) ∝ 1 − T . Our data are not well fit by an isotropic s-wave supercon-ductor [26], nor do they show a clear linear-in-T de-pendence. Rather, data are well fit by a power law, 

ρs(T ) = ρ0

> s

(1 − (T /T c)n), where the zero temperature stiffness ρ0

> s

, Tc and n are free parameters and the typical best fit power n ≈ 1.9. This temperature dependence could be consistent with an anisotropic gap [26] or dis-tinct gaps on multiple bands [46–48]. Applying the same power law fit to data taken at differ-7                             

> FIG. 4. Quantifying the local superfluid stiffness ρsand local Tc. a , Reconstructed spatial map ρsfrom ∆ Bmeasured at T= 70 mK. b, Experimental data of screening field ∆ Bin an external Bz= 150 μT used for the reconstruction in panel a. c, Half-width of the 95% confidence interval for the least-squares minimization presented in panel a. d, The simulated screening field corresponding to the ρsspatial map in panel a, which matches data in panel b. e, Measurement of Tcas a function of space, defined as the temperature at which the local ∆ Bgoes to zero (Methods). Symbols represent the spatial locations of data in Fig. 5. f, Uemura-style plot for correlating ρs(panel a) and Tc(panel e) pixel-by-pixel. The red dashed line corresponds to the lower bound set by BKT limit with ρs= 2 Tc/π .

ent ne (Fig. 5b) and D (Fig. 5c) allows us to determine the relation between Tc and ρ0 

> s

across the superconduct-ing pocket shown in the inset of Fig. 5a. These results are summarized in the Uemura plots [49] of Figs. 5d and e. ρ0 

> s

and Tc are found to be linearly correlated, with 

ρ0 

> s

≈ 5.5Tc for data taken at the same position but vary-ing ne and D, consistent with the correlation found as a function of position for fixed ne and D in Fig. 4f. 

> DISCUSSION

The technical advances reported here open the path to thermodynamic characterizations of ultra-low density superconductors across a wide range of 2D materials and heterostructures. As shown for this particular sample, this approach can help resolve key questions about real-and parameter-space correlations between different phys-ical phenomena. One immediate surprise revealed by the current experiment is the degree of mesoscopic disorder present in the sample on few-micron length scales. No-tably, there is a clear discrepancy in real-space distribu-tion of ferromagnetic moments in the valley imbalanced phases (Fig. 1d) and Meissner screening in the super-conducting phase (Fig. 1e)—while many parts of the sample show both superconductivity and ferromagnetism (at the ne, D coordinates appropriate for each phase), in other regions one of the two phenomena is significantly suppressed. This behavior may be tied, in the current sample, to the presence of both a WSe 2 and an aligned hBN cladding layer. Prior experiments on WSe 2 clad R3G devices with a misaligned hBN[27, 28] show super-8                                   

> FIG. 5. Temperature dependence of ρsand Uemura plot. a , ∆ Band ρsmeasured at a single location as a function of
> T. The data is taken at the neand Dindicated by the solid dot in the bottom left inset, which shows ∆ Bphase diagram at
> T= 70 mK. The upper right inset panel is the transport measurement determined Tcalong the dashed horizontal trajectory in the bottom left inset. The red curve shows a power law fit, while the blue curve shows the expectation for an isotropic, s-wave BCS superconductor. b, ∆ B(or ρs) as a function of Tfor various nealong the horizontal trajectory in the inset of panel a. Dashed lines show power law fits to the data. d, Uemura plot of the y-intercept ∆ B0(or ρ0
> s) versus Tc, as determined in panel b. The color of the data points indicates whether neis higher or lower relative to the value at optimal Tc.c, e , Same as panel b, d but for various Dalong the vertical dashed trajectory in the inset of panel a.

conductivity very similar in extent and properties to the sample studied here; conversely, hBN alignment is known to significantly alter the extent of some of the ferromag-netic phases[50]. Misalignments or contamination of the two interfaces in the current device may thus have dis-parate effects on superconductivity and ferromagnetism. This question may be resolved in future studies of hBN-clad superconducting rhombohedral multilayers in which the substrate and graphene crystal axes are misaligned, so that the correlated electron physics is not sensitive to substrate coupling. As noted above, our data is qualitatively consistent with a proposed mechanism for superconductivity me-diated by spin-canting fluctuations [43, 44]. In particu-lar, we identify a critical point at which the spin-canting order vanishes continuously within the superconducting dome (Figs. 3c-d). Theoretically, the pairing strength is expected to be stronger in the ordered phase, but we observe that Tc is maximal on the disordered side of the phase transition. This may be explained by the near-coincidence of the spin-canting transition with a Lif-shitz transition. Throughout most of the spin canted phase, the electron system is a simple half metal, with two Fermi pockets. However, in most of the spin valley locked phase, the Fermi surface topology includes mi-nority pockets [27, 28]. These asymmetric pockets are thought to play a key role in some theories for magnon-mediated pairing [43] while other theories find similar superconducting instabilities without minority pockets [44]. Our observation of a superconducting dome cen-tered over the multi-band spin-valley locked phase sug-gests that the details of inter-band scattering may be the dominant source of tunability of Tc with gate voltage. The description of the superconducting state itself re-vealed by our measurements can be summarized by two key facts. First, the temperature dependence of ρs re-sembles that of a weak-to-intermediate coupling super-conductor: ρs(T ) ∝ T − TC close to Tc as expected 9from mean field theory, while ρ0 

> s

≈ 5.5Tc, placing it well outside the strong phase fluctuation regime[51]. Second, 

ρ0 

> s

∝ Tc over a wide range of Tc as tuned by experimen-tal parameters such at ne and D. Such proportionality is not expected in clean BCS superconductors, in which 

ρ0 

> s

is set by the effective Fermi energy EF .

ρ0 

> s

∝ Tc does arise in the ‘dirty-limit’ of BCS su-perconductivity, when the coherence length ξ is much larger than the electron mean free path ℓM F [1]. How-ever, this limit is very unlikely to apply to rhombohedral graphene [20, 52]. In the current sample, the upper crit-ical field is found to be Bz ≈ 50 mT , which sets an upper bound on of ξ ≲ 80nm. The mean free path can be estimated from the normal state resistivity R□ ≈ 200Ω as ℓM F = Φ0 

> 4R□kF

≈ 500nm. Alternatively, ℓM F can be bounded from the magnetic field where quantum oscilla-tions onset, Bz ≈ 500 mT [27, 28], at which point ℓM F 

should be much larger than the classical cyclotron radius 

RC ≈ kF ℓ2 

> B

(where ℓB is the magnetic length). This es-timate gives a consistent value of ℓM F ≳ 200 nm , again larger than ξ. Our sample is thus deep in the clean limit, defined as ξ ≲ ℓM F .

ρ0 

> s

∝ Tc is also expected when phase fluctuations deter-mine Tc[51]. However, this picture implies a near-unity constant of proportionality, ρ0

> s

/T c ∼ 1. This ratio is ob-served in cuprate superconductors[49, 53] but is violated in the present experiment on R3G/WSe 2. Explaining the fact that ρ0 

> s

∝ Tc with a proportionality constant considerably larger than one in the absence of disorder is an outstanding theoretical problem. Further investi-gation may reveal whether this observation is generic to the wide variety of superconducting states observed in different graphene allotropes[14, 20, 22] and related two-dimensional materials[54–56].  

> ∗

These authors contributed equally.  

> †

andrea@physics.ucsb.edu [1] Tinkham, M. Introduction to superconductivity . Dover books on physics (Dover Publ, Mineola, NY, 2015), 2 ed edn. [2] Pearl, J. Current distribution in superconducting films carrying quantized fluxoids. Applied Physics Letters 5,65–66 (1964). [3] Fetter, A. L. Flux penetration in a thin superconducting disk. Physical Review B 22 , 1200–1213 (1980). [4] Tafuri, F., Kirtley, J. R., Medaglia, P. G., Orgiani, P. & Balestrino, G. Magnetic Imaging of Pearl Vortices in Ar-tificially Layered (Ba0.9Nd0.1CuO2+x)m/(CaCuO2)n Systems. Phys. Rev. Lett. 92 , 157006 (2004). [5] Finkler, A. et al. Scanning superconducting quantum interference device on a tip for magnetic imaging of nanoscale phenomena. Review of Scientific Instruments 

83 (2012). [6] Persky, E., Sochnikov, I. & Kalisky, B. Studying quan-tum materials with scanning squid microscopy. Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 13 , 385–405 (2022). [7] Rondin, L. et al. Magnetometry with nitrogen-vacancy defects in diamond. Reports on Progress in Physics 77 ,056503 (2014). [8] Casola, F., van der Sar, T. & Yacoby, A. Probing condensed matter physics with magnetometry based on nitrogen-vacancy centres in diamond. Nature Reviews Materials 3 (2018). [9] Bert, J. A. et al. Direct imaging of the coexis-tence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity at the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface. Nature Physics 7, 767–771 (2011). [10] Bert, J. A. et al. Gate-tuned superfluid density at the superconducting LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interface. Phys. Rev. B 86 (2012). [11] Thiel, L. et al. Quantitative nanoscale vortex imaging using a cryogenic quantum magnetometer. Nature Nan-otechnology 11 , 677–681 (2016). [12] Jarjour, A. et al. Superfluid response of an atomically thin gate-tuned van der Waals superconductor. Nature Communications 14 , 2055 (2023). [13] Fridman, N. et al. Anomalous thickness dependence of the vortex pearl length in few-layer NbSe2. Nature Com-munications 16 , 2696 (2025). [14] Cao, Y. et al. Unconventional superconductivity in magic-angle graphene superlattices. Nature 556 , 43–50 (2018). [15] Yankowitz, M. et al. Tuning superconductivity in twisted bilayer graphene. Science 363 , 1059–1064 (2019). [16] Park, J. M., Cao, Y., Watanabe, K., Taniguchi, T. & Jarillo-Herrero, P. Tunable strongly coupled supercon-ductivity in magic-angle twisted trilayer graphene. Na-ture 590 , 249–255 (2021). [17] Hao, Z. et al. Electric field–tunable superconductivity in alternating-twist magic-angle trilayer graphene. Science 

371 , 1133–1138 (2021). [18] Zhang, Y. et al. Promotion of superconductivity in magic-angle graphene multilayers. Science 377 , 1538– 1543 (2022). [19] Park, J. M. et al. Robust superconductivity in magic-angle multilayer graphene family. Nature Materials 21 ,877–883 (2022). [20] Zhou, H., Xie, T., Taniguchi, T., Watanabe, K. &Young, A. F. Superconductivity in rhombohedral trilayer graphene. Nature 598 , 434–438 (2021). [21] Zhou, H. et al. Isospin magnetism and spin-polarized superconductivity in Bernal bilayer graphene. Science 

375 , 774–778 (2022). [22] Han, T. et al. Signatures of chiral superconductivity in rhombohedral graphene. Nature 1–3 (2025). [23] Berezinskii, V. L. Destruction of long-range order in on-dimensional and two-dimensional systems having a continuous symmetry group I: classical systems. Soviet Physics JETP 32 , 493 (1970). [24] Kosterlitz, J. M. & Thouless, D. J. Ordering, metasta-bility and phase transitions in two-dimensional systems. 

Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 6, 1181–1203 (1973). [25] Banerjee, A. et al. Superfluid stiffness of twisted trilayer graphene superconductors. Nature 638 , 93–98 (2025). [26] Tanaka, M. et al. Superfluid stiffness of magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene. Nature 638 , 99–105 (2025). [27] Patterson, C. L. et al. Superconductivity and spin cant-ing in spin–orbit-coupled trilayer graphene. Nature 641 ,10 

632–638 (2025). [28] Yang, J. et al. Impact of spin–orbit coupling on supercon-ductivity in rhombohedral graphene. Nature Materials 

24 , 1058–1065 (2025). [29] Perego, M. et al. Experimental detection of vortices in magic-angle graphene. Nature Communications 16 

(2025). [30] Perego, M. et al. Pearl-vortex tunneling in magic-angle twisted graphene (2026). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/ 2601.21735 . ArXiv:2601.21735 [cond-mat]. [31] Bardeen, J. Quantization of Flux in a Superconducting Cylinder. Physical Review Letters 7, 162–163 (1961). [32] Kogan, V. G. Pearl’s vortex near the film edge. Physical Review B 49 , 15874–15878 (1994). [33] Geim, A. K. et al. Non-quantized penetration of magnetic field in the vortex state of superconductors. Nature 407 ,55–57 (2000). [34] Zhang, A.-L., Gladilin, V., Van de Vondel, J., Moshchalkov, V. V. & Ge, J.-Y. Tunable Noninteger Flux Quantum of Vortices in Superconducting Strips. Nano Letters 22 , 7151–7157 (2022). [35] Khoo, J. Y., Morpurgo, A. F. & Levitov, L. On-Demand Spin-Orbit Interaction from Which-Layer Tunability in Bilayer Graphene. Nano Letters 17 , 7003–7008 (2017). [36] Island, J. O. et al. Spin–orbit-driven band inversion in bilayer graphene by the van der Waals proximity effect. 

Nature 571 , 85–89 (2019). [37] Zhang, Y. et al. Enhanced superconductivity in spin–orbit proximitized bilayer graphene. Nature 613 ,268–273 (2023). [38] Zhang, Y. et al. Twist-programmable superconductiv-ity in spin–orbit-coupled bilayer graphene. Nature 1–7 (2025). [39] Li, C. et al. Tunable superconductivity in electron- and hole-doped Bernal bilayer graphene. Nature 1–7 (2024). [40] Holleis, L. et al. Nematicity and orbital depairing in superconducting Bernal bilayer graphene. Nature Physics 

21 , 444–450 (2025). [41] Chatterjee, S., Wang, T., Berg, E. & Zaletel, M. P. Inter-valley coherent order and isospin fluctuation mediated superconductivity in rhombohedral trilayer graphene. 

Nature Communications 13 , 6013 (2022). [42] Jimeno-Pozo, A., Sainz-Cruz, H., Cea, T., Pantale´ on, P. A. & Guinea, F. Superconductivity from electronic in-teractions and spin-orbit enhancement in bilayer and tri-layer graphene. Physical Review B 107 , L161106 (2023). [43] Dong, Z., Lantagne-Hurtubise, E. & Alicea, J. Supercon-ductivity from Spin-Canting Fluctuations in Rhombohe-dral Graphene. Physical Review X 16 , 011055 (2026). [44] Raines, Z. M. & Chubukov, A. V. Superconductivity in-duced by spin-orbit coupling in a two-valley ferromagnet. 

npj Quantum Materials (2026). [45] Prozorov, R. & Giannetta, R. W. Magnetic penetration depth in unconventional superconductors. Superconduc-tor Science and Technology 19 , R41 (2006). [46] Manzano, F. et al. Exponential temperature dependence of the penetration depth in single crystal mgb2. Physical Review Letters 88 (2002). [47] Kogan, V. G., Martin, C. & Prozorov, R. Superfluid density and specific heat within a self-consistent scheme for a two-band superconductor. Physical Review B 80 

(2009). [48] Luan, L. et al. Local measurement of the penetra-tion depth in the pnictide superconductor ba(fe 0.95 co 

> 0.05

)2as 2. Physical Review B 81 (2010). [49] Uemura, Y. J. et al. Universal correlations between tc

and ns/m ∗ (carrier density over effective mass) in high-

tc cuprate superconductors. Physical Review Letters 62 ,2317–2320 (1989). [50] Uzan, M. et al. hBN alignment orientation controls moir´ estrength in rhombohedral graphene (2025). URL http: //arxiv.org/abs/2507.20647 . ArXiv:2507.20647 [cond-mat]. [51] Emery, V. J. & Kivelson, S. A. Importance of phase fluc-tuations in superconductors with small superfluid den-sity. Nature 374 , 434–437 (1995). [52] Seo, J. et al. Family of unconventional superconduc-tivities in crystalline graphene (2025). URL https: //arxiv.org/abs/2509.03295 . ArXiv:2509.03295 [cond-mat]. [53] Boˇ zovi´ c, I., He, X., Wu, J. & Bollinger, A. T. Dependence of the critical temperature in overdoped copper oxides on superfluid density. Nature 536 , 309–311 (2016). [54] Guo, Y. et al. Superconductivity in 5.0 ° twisted bilayer WSe2. Nature 637 , 839–845 (2025). [55] Xia, Y. et al. Superconductivity in twisted bilayer WSe2. 

Nature 637 , 833–838 (2025). [56] Xu, F. et al. Signatures of unconventional superconduc-tivity near reentrant and fractional quantum anomalous Hall insulators (2025). URL http://arxiv.org/abs/ 2504.06972 . ArXiv:2504.06972 [cond-mat]. [57] Bishop-Van Horn, L. & Moler, K. A. Superscreen: An open-source package for simulating the magnetic response of two-dimensional superconducting devices. 

Computer Physics Communications 280 , 108464 (2022). [58] Cave, J. R. & Evetts, J. E. Critical temperature pro-file determination using a modified london equation for inhomogeneous superconductors. Journal of Low Tem-perature Physics 63 , 35–55 (1986). [59] Kogan, V. G. & Kirtley, J. R. Meissner response of su-perconductors with inhomogeneous penetration depths. 

Physical Review B 83 (2011). [60] Meltzer, A. Y., Levin, E. & Zeldov, E. Direct recon-struction of two-dimensional currents in thin films from magnetic-field measurements. Physical Review Applied 8

(2017). [61] Zuber, J. W. et al. A new approach to the inverse prob-lem for current mapping in thin-film superconductors. 

Journal of Applied Physics 123 , 123906 (2018). 

METHODS Sample fabrication 

All data is presented from a single device, which was also described (as Device E) in Ref. [27]. In brief, the rhombohedral trilayer graphene (R3G) flake is identified using Raman spectroscopy and isolated via local anodic oxidation with an atomic force microscope. Separately, a poly(bisphenol A carbonate) stamp is used to pick up an hBN/few layer graphite stack, which is then dissolved in chloroform and vacuum annealed to remove the poly-mer. Then, a second stamp is used to pick up a few-layer-graphite/hBN/monolayer WSe 2/R3G stack. This 11 stack is dropped onto the first half, such that the R3G is aligned to the bottom hBN, forming a moire pattern. The device is then etched and contacted using standard electron beam lithography techniques. An optical micro-graph and atomic force microscopy image of the com-pleted device are presented in Extended Data Fig. 3. 

> NanoSQUID on tip measurements

The nanoSQUID on tip (nSOT) sensor was fabricated by cryogenic evaporation of indium onto the apex of a pulled quartz pipette. The nSOT is measured via a feed-back loop using a series SQUID array amplifier, and has a sensitivity of ∼ 1 − 3nT /Hz 1/2 at measurement frequen-cies (circuit shown in Extended Data Fig. 1a). In or-der to calibrate the response of the SQUID from current through the feedback circuit into flux through the nSOT, we step the external magnetic field by 100 μT before and after measurements to establish a linear conversion fac-tor between measured current and applied flux. From both SEM imaging and the field-period of the SQUID, we estimate the size of the nSOT to be 350 nm diame-ter, which provides the conversion between ∆ B, magnetic field through the nSOT, and ∆Φ, magnetic flux through the nSOT, presented in the main text. The nSOT is positioned over the sample at a distace of 150 − 200 nm with a Attocube ANSxyz100std/LT xyz-Scanner. A quartz tuning fork attached to the nSOT is operated in a phase-locked loop, which enables periodic measurement of the sample surface to ensure an approximately con-stant height. nSOT measurements are performed in a custom, wet dilution refrigerator in two modalities. In one modality, a small amount of Helium-4 exchange gas is left in the cell containing the microscope, which provides better thermalization/stabilization of the nSOT and tun-ing fork, at the cost of additional heating of the sample from the nSOT (see discussion below). Some measure-ments are performed with the sample and microscope in vacuum, after pumping out the sample cell, which results in lower sample temperatures. In order to maintain high sensitivity of the nSOT at zero perpendicular magnetic field, which is crucial for studying the superconducting state, we mount the nSOT sensor at θ ≈ 12 .5◦ off from the vertical axis of the micro-scope and apply an in-plane magnetic field Bx = −46 mT to tune the nSOT to a sensitive working point (Extended Data Fig. 1b). With this constant Bx, the nSOT is sensi-tive across a few mT of applied Bz . Due to a finite, inad-vertent tilt α of the sample in the plane (Extended Data Fig. 1b), the in-plane magnetic field induces a small per-pendicular magnetic field on the sample, which needs to be canceled out with the external field Bz . We find that the perpendicular magnetic field on the sample is zero when the Bz = 1 .9 mT on the external SC magnet, indi-cating an approximately α = 2 ◦ tilt of the sample. This is measured via the field at which the Meissner screening field is zero, as well as independent transport measure-ments which show the extent of the SC state maximized at this field. For all measurements presented in the main text, we subtract off this offset for clarity, so that Bz ex-pressed in the main text represents the approximate B⊥

of the sample, rather than the applied magnetic field of the external magnet. Measurements of ∆ B are performed using a quasi-DC boxcar technique in which the gates are oscillated using a square-wave signal between the gate voltage of interest and a non-magnetic reference point. In order to mini-mize parasitic electric field contrast from the top-gate, only the back-gate is oscillated at finite frequency, and the magnitude of the “step” is minimized as much as pos-sible while ensuring nonmagnetic reference points. For all data in the main text, we subtract out an additional “background” signal to remove this parasitic electric field contribution by subtracting a separate measurement at the same location with the same voltage “step” between two non-magnetic points in parameter space. The square wave applied to the back-gate and the ex-pected signal from the nSOT is illustrated in Extended Data Fig. 2. To suppress displacement currents caused by abrupt gate voltage steps, we inserted analog RC fil-ters (cutoff frequency f = 5 kHz, 48dB/octave roll off) on both the top- and bottom-gate lines (Extended Data Fig. 2a). The combination of line resistance, parasitic capacitance, and the multi-pole cold RC filters on the transport contacts introduces a finite settling time, lead-ing to a delayed saturation in the nSOT signal (Extended Data Fig. 2b). To accurately extract the steady-state re-sponse, we used a boxcar averager that demodulates the nSOT signal by integrating over a gate window aligned with the saturation portion of the response. A baseline window of equal duration is subtracted from the gated signal to yield the static nSOT response. The boxcar averaging was implemented using a Zurich Instrument MFLI digital lock-in amplifier. Because the saturated portion of the nSOT signal occupies only a small duty cycle, the effective averaging time is limited, often resulting in a lower signal-to-noise ratio in the box-car output. To improve noise performance, we simultane-ously demodulated the same input signal using the stan-dard lock-in technique on the same instrument. The lock-in approach averages over the entire duty cycle, thereby suppressing noise more effectively, and yields a signal pro-portional to the static nSOT response by a constant fac-tor. In all reported data, we calibrated this proportion-ality factor between the boxcar and lock-in results, and present the corrected lock-in signal as the final data. 12 

> Sensing in-plane and out-of-plane moments with nSOT

The measured ∆ B can include contributions from both in-plane and out-of-plane magnetization. While a de-tailed discussion can be found in [27], we present further data supporting this in Extended Data Fig. 5. Extended Data Fig. 5a-b show schematics of the expected mag-netic fringe field around a nonactive region of the sample, which could be a physical ‘hole’ or disorder-induced re-duction of magnetism. The nSOT measurement of ∆ B,which is chiefly in the z-direction, has a sign change in the center of the hole for out-of-plane oriented moments vs. a dipole-like behavior for in-plane oriented moments. In Extended Data Fig. 5c-d, we present images with the device tuned into an orbital ferromagnetic state with out-of-plane magnetization and a spin-canted state with in-plane magnetization, respectively. Both images are taken with Bz = 250 μT out of the plane of the sample, and Bx = 46 mT at a direction approximately 20 ◦ off of the vertical axis of our spatial images–i.e., the dipole seen in Fig. 5d is oriented along the Bx direction. Upon flipping the sign of Bx, the direction of the spin-canting dipole should flip while the orbital ferromagnet would be unchanged. Alternatively, reversing Bz should reverse the direction of the orbital ferromagnet but not affect the spin-canted phase (in-plane moment). In Extended Data Fig. 5e-g, we show a more complete dataset of the latter approach, as Bz is tuned continuously across a trajectory in ne-D plane that goes from the spin-canted phase (which is broadly seen to be Bz insensitive) into the superconductor (which has a sign reversal as Bz crosses zero). The data presented in Fig. 3 in the main text comes from symmetrizing and anti-symmetrizing this dataset at Bz = ±0.1 mT; for completeness we show similar analyses at Bz = ±0.05 , 0.1, 0.15 , 0.2 mT in Ex-tended Data Fig. 5g. 

> Extracting superfluid stiffness from measured screening field

We extracted local 2D superfluid stiffness ρs (x, y ) by quantitatively fitting the experimental screening field re-sult to forward simulations performed with open-source finite-element package SuperScreen [57], which solves the 2D London equation for thin-film superconductors of ar-bitrary geometry and spatially varying stiffness. We first defined a coarse grid that covered the active region to-gether with a surrounding padding area of nominally zero screening field, and represented the ρs on this grid. We then bilinearly interpolated to the full resolution of the spatial image prior to each forward calculation. The for-ward model takes the applied Bz and trial ρs map as inputs and returns the vector magnetic field at a given height. Considering the tip-sample distance 250nm and tip tilt, we computed the expected ∆ B(x, y ) image. We then minimized a nonlinear least-squares objective with respect to the coarse-grid ρs, using the difference between simulated and measured screening fields as the primary residual r0 = Bmeas − Bsim , and imposed Tikhonov-type regularization terms on both the spatial gradients of ρs and the gradients of the magnetic field, r1 ∝ ∇ ρs,

r2 ∝ ∇ 2ρs, and r3 ∝ ∇ Bmeas − ∇ Bsim , to favor smooth yet sharply bounded stiffness profiles. Three scalar reg-ularization parameters λ1, λ2, and λ3 controlled the rel-ative weights of these terms and were tuned on each dataset to obtain ρs solutions that were smooth inside the superconducting region while preserving the ampli-tude. Formally, we treated the discretized stiffness values on the coarse grid as the parameter vector ρ. The fit mini-mizes the nonlinear least-squares cost 

S(ρ) = 

> N

X

> i=1

ri(ρ)2,

where r(ρ) collects the residual r0 and the regularization terms r1, r 2, r 3. We considered only the residual r0 for the confidence interval. Near the optimum ˆ ρ, we linearize the residuals as 

r(ρ) ≈ r(ˆ ρ) + J(ˆ ρ)( ρ − ˆρ),

with Jacobian 

Jij = ∂r i

∂ρ j

|ρ= ˆ ρ,

so each column of J describes how the residual changes when perturbing the ρs at a given pixel. Under the usual assumption of independence, homoscedastic Gaus-sian noise, this linearization yields and approximate co-variance matrix for the fitted ρs matrix, 

Cov (ˆ ρ) ≈ s2(JT J)−1, s 2 = 1

N − p

> N

X

> i=1

ri(ˆ ρ)2,

where N is the number of data points and p is the dimen-sion of the coarse ρs matrix. The variance of the fitted stiffness at pixel j is [ Cov (ˆ ρ)] jj giving a standard error in physical unit Kelvin. 

SE ( ˆ ρj ) = 

q

[Cov (ˆ ρ)] jj .

In addition to Fig.4, we present another representa-tive ρs fit in Extended Data Fig.6a. Notably, although no explicit boundary conditions were imposed on the su-percurrent distribution, the reconstructed current magni-tude || j|| remains naturally confined to the active region of the device. We attribute this self-confinement to the high spatial resolution of the nSOT. 13   

> Extracting local Tcfrom measured screening field

To extract local Tc, we acquired a temperature series of screening-field images under a fixed out-of-plane field 

Bz = 150 μT (Extended Data Fig.7). At each pixel, we compiled the temperature dependence into a single ∆B(T ) trace and fit this trace to a power-law form ∆B(T ) = A[1 − (T /T c)n] with a piecewise termination: ∆B = 0 when T > T c, using standard nonlinear least-squares regression with bounded parameters. As an ini-tial estimate of Tc, ext , we identified the lowest tempera-ture at which the measured screening field exceed −3nT ;if no such crossing was found at a given pixel, we assigned a default initial estimate Tc, ext = 20 mK for that location. The fit was constrained to A ≤ 0, 0 ≤ n ≤ 5, and Tc ≥ 0. This procedure yields, for every spatial pixel, a best-fit critical temperature Tc together with confidence intervals obtained from the covariance of the least-squares fit. For pixels with no valid fitting, the confidence intervals are invalid, thus the corresponding Tc, local is left blank.    

> Linear approximation between ρsand ∆B

As discussed and presented in the main text, at certain well-behaved locations, we adopted an approximate lin-ear relation between the measurement of ∆ B and the ex-tracted ρs from the magnetic inversion described above. Here, we describe an analytical model for why this ap-proximation is reasonable near smooth regions of the su-perfluid stiffness (i.e., where ∇ρs is small) and in the weak-screening limit. In the 2D limit, the inhomogeneous London equation is 

B = −∇ × 



c js

ρs



(3) = −c

 1

ρs

∇ × js − 1

ρ2

> s

∇ρs × js



(4) with c = Φ20 

> 2π2kB

being the prefactor [57–59]. By choosing a spatial location with ρs being roughly constant nearby, the second term vanishes. Meanwhile, the weak-screening limit guarantees that the left-hand side of this equation is approximately the externally applied magnetic field Bz ,so we have 

ρs ≈ − cBz

∇ × js (5) The measured ∆ B by the nSOT can be thought of as generated by the Meissner screening current js in the sample: in a thin film, the out–of–plane magnetic field at sensor height h is related to the in–plane sheet current density js via the Biot–Savart law. In Fourier space, this relation can be written as ∆Bz (k, h ) = μ0 K(k, h ) k × js(k), (6) where k is the in–plane wave-vector, js(k) is the Fourier transform of the in–plane screening current density, and 

K(k, h ) is the scalar transfer function encoding the Biot– Savart kernel[60, 61]. For a film in free space one has 

K(k, h ) ∝ e−| k|h, so each spatial Fourier component of 

js is multiplied by an exponential factor e−| k|h: cur-rent variations with |k|h ≪ 1 are transmitted essentially unchanged to Bz , whereas modes with |k| ≳ 1/h are strongly suppressed. If the screening currents vary only on length scales L much larger than the sensor scales, 

L ≫ max( h, R tip ), then all significant Fourier compo-nents satisfy |k|h ≪ 1, implying e−| k|h ≈ 1 and hence ∆Bz (r, h ) ≈ const ∇ × js(r), (7) on the scale we probe. Projected along the axis of the tip, we can combine these two Eqs. 5 and 7 and find that 

ρs ∝ − ∆BBz

. (8) We present additional data in Extended Data Fig. 6and Extended Data Fig. 9 to support this approximation. In Extended Data Fig. 6b, we vary the carrier density 

ne at T = 210 mK , which lies near the midpoint of the temperature range explored in our experiment. At three locations, we took a high-resolution ∆ B sweep and over-lay the ρs fit result from seven spatial ∆ B images. We observed a qualitative correlation in which ρs and −∆B

follow similar trends. When the −∆B signal is large rel-ative to the experimental noise floor, the confidence in-terval of ρs is correspondingly narrow. In contrast, when the −∆B signal is weak, the uncertainty in ρs increases significantly, in some cases exceeding the fitted value of 

ρs. In Extended Data Fig. 9, we extract the local ∆ B

at four locations and correlate the ratio of −ρs/∆B with ∆B obtained from spatial images over the full temper-ature range (Extended Data Fig. 7). We find that the ratio −ρs/∆B remains approximately constant when the ∆B signal is large and the fit uncertainty is small, and systematically deviates from this constant value as the fitting error becomes significant. 

> Characterization of tip-induced heating

Because the nSOT is operated in the voltage state, there is constant heat dissipation at the tip, which can lead to heating of the sample. This effect is much more dramatic when there is exchange gas present in the mi-croscope cell, as discussed above. In order to measure this effect, we use the superconducting transport of the device as a secondary thermometer. In Extended Data Fig. 10a-b, we show Rxx vs. n at varying mixing cham-ber temperature TM C for a fixed displacement field in the sample. This map is taken with the nSOT grounded, such that there is no heating from the tip. We then 14 measured the same Rxx trace with the tip biased to the measurement configuration and at varying heights, down to the measurement height (Extended Data Fig.10c-d). Importantly, we do not observe widening of the super-conducting transition (as a function of n) when the tip is biased, and within our experimental resolution, trans-port curves measured with nSOT-induced heating match well to measurements at elevated mixing chamber tem-peratures with no tip heating. This indicates that the tip uniformly heats the sample over at least the lengthscales over which the transport contacts probe. Temperatures reported in the main text are calibrated by matching the width (in ne) of the superconductor with the tip biased to the same measurement with no tip heating, and thus de-scribe the electron temperature of the sample accounting for heating from the tip. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We acknowledge discussions with ´Etienne Lantagne-Hurtubise, Zhiyu Dong, and Steve Kivelson. AFY ac-knowledges primary support for this work by the De-partment of Energy under award DE-SC0020043 and the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation’s Experimental Physics Investigator award GBMF13801 who provided equal support. AFY acknowledges further support by the W. M. Keck Foundation under award SB190132 for the development of the ultra-low temperature SQUID microscopy setup. KW. and TT acknowledge support from the JSPS KAKENHI (Grant Numbers 21H05233 and 23H02052), the CREST (JPMJCR24A5), JST and World Premier International Research Center Initiative (WPI), MEXT, Japan. TA, OS, and ER acknowledge di-rect support by the National Science Foundation through Enabling Quantum Leap: Convergent Accelerated Dis-covery Foundries for Quantum Materials Science, En-gineering and Information (Q-AMASE-i) award number DMR-1906325; the work also made use of shared equip-ment sponsored under this award. CJ acknowledges sup-port from the Department of Energy under award DE-SC0026348. Use was made of computational facilities purchased with funds from the National Science Foun-dation (CNS-1725797) and administered by the Center for Scientific Computing (CSC). The CSC is supported by the California NanoSystems Institute and the Mate-rials Research Science and Engineering Center (MRSEC; NSF DMR 2308708) at UC Santa Barbara. E.B. was supported by the Simons Foundation Collaboration on New Frontiers in Superconductivity (Grant SFI-MPS-NFS-00006741-03), by an NSF-BSF Award No. DMR-2310312, and by CRC 183 of the Deutsche Forschungs-gemeinschaft (Project C02). Some of this work was initi-ated at the Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, which is supported by grant NSF PHY-2309135. 

> AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

RZ and BAF performed the nSOT measurements, with assistance from OS and TA. EB provided theoretical sup-port. RZ built the ultra-low temperature nSOT micro-scope, with assistance from OS, TA, and SG. SX and TX fabricated the device, under supervision of CJ. YG and HS performed additional transport characterization. BAF fabricated and characterized the nSOT, with as-sistance from AK, ER, and CZ. TT and KW provided hBN crystals. MEH provided SQUID array amplifiers for nSOT readout. RZ, BAF, OS, and AFY analyzed the data and wrote the paper with inputs from all au-thors. 

> COMPETING INTERESTS

The authors declare no competing interests. 

> DATA AVAILABILITY

Source data that reproduce the plots are provided with this paper. All supporting data for this paper and other findings of this study are available from the correspond-ing authors upon request. 

> CODE AVAILABILITY

All numerical codes for this paper and other findings of this study are available from the corresponding authors upon request. 15 

Extended Data Fig. 1. nanoSQUID-on-tip (nSOT) characterization. a , Schematic of nSOT measurement circuit. A voltage bias Vbias is applied across a bias resistor RB = 10 kΩ, and a shunt resistor of Rs = 5Ω shunts the nSOT. The current through the nSOT is measured via the voltage Vf b across a resistor RF = 1 kΩ coupled via a series superconducting squid array amplifier with a turn-ratio of 13.5 between the inductors. b, Schematic of the nSOT in the x − z plane of the external magnet. The nSOT is tilted at angle θ ≈ 12 .5◦ relative to the vertical. There is also a small tilt α ≈ 2◦ due to imperfect mounting of the sample, causing an in-plane field Bx to inadvertently apply a finite effective perpendicular field to the sample. 

c, SEM image of a representative nSOT similar to the one used in this experiment. d, Measured d Vf b /d Bz of the nSOT as a function of applied bias voltage Vbias to the nSOT measurement circuit and applied magnetic field in the z-direction, Bz , at zero in-plane magnetic field, Bx. Jumps at high bias are artifacts due to the feedback circuit. e, Measured d Vf b /d Bx of the nSOT as a function of Vbias and Bx at Bz = 0; the longer period of oscillation is due to the tilt of the nSOT. f, Measured dVf b /d Bz of the nSOT as a function of Vbias and Bz at fixed Bx = −46 mT. The black bar denotes the bias and range of magnetic fields for the measurements. g, Representative sensitivity of the nSOT as a function of frequency. 16 

Extended Data Fig. 2. Boxcar measurement. a, Illustration of square-wave gate modulation applied to the bottom gate. b, Illustration of the expected nSOT signal corresponding to the gate modulation considering finite settling time effects. 17 

Extended Data Fig. 3. Device characterization and large-scale phase diagrams. a, Optical micrograph of device, with scalebar 1 μm. b, AFM image of device, also with scalebar 1 μm. Gray lines show a contour of constant ∆ B measured in the valley imbalanced magnetic phase for comparison with panels c-d. Small topographical features can be observed within the otherwise smooth device region which correlate with locations of weaker ferromagnetism (panel c). c-d , Data from Fig. 1a and Fig. 2d with the contours of constant ∆ B in panel c overlaid, for comparison of vortex locations in panel d with panels b-c. e, Longitudinal resistance Rxx vs. ne and D at zero magnetic field and base temperature, with no tip-induced heating (T ≈ 30 mK). Resistive features at high density are due to the moire pattern formed by hBN alignment [27], though these do not have a significant effect on the measured fringe field (panel f). f, ∆ B as a function of ne and D at a location in the device with sensitivity to both in-plane and out-of-plane moments ([27], Extended Data Fig. 5). Black star (dot) denotes the gate condition for superconductivity (valley imbalanced phase) images, while the green symbols are the reference points for the square wave oscillation. For this dataset, the square wave references ( ne = 0 , D ) for each position ( ne, D ) in the phase diagram. 18 

Extended Data Fig. 4. Spatial imaging of the Meissner effect across the entire measured Bz range at T = 210 mK .19 

Extended Data Fig. 5. Sensitivity to in-plane spin moments and symmetrization of ∆B. a Schematic of magnetic field induced by a magnetic phase with spins oriented in the z-direction around a magnetically ‘hole’ region in the sample, which might be caused by a physical hole or disorder suppressing magnetic order. Field lines wrap through the ‘hole,’ which lead to a sign reversal in the magnetic field measured by the nSOT above. b, Same as panel a but for spins oriented in the plane of the sample. The sign reversal now occurs across the two edges of the ‘hole,’ depending on the direction of spin-polarization. 

c, Spatial image of ∆ B in the quarter-metal phase in which spin order is out of the plane. d, Spatial image of ∆ B in the half-metal phase in which spin order is directed in the plane. In both panels c-d, scalebars are 1 μm. e, Measurement of ∆ B

as a function of Bz at a single position (approximately marked in panels c-d by the SQUID symbol). The data is taken along the trajectory in the ne-D plane noted in Fig. 3 f-g , Anti-symmetrization ( f ) and symmetrization ( g) of the data in panel e at various out of plane magnetic fields Bz , in mT. 20 

Extended Data Fig. 6. Additional ρs reconstruction data a , Spatial map of ∆ B, ∆ Bsim , ρs, supercurrent density 

|| j|| , h0.95 (ρs), and fitting error B − Bsim at T =210mK with displacement field D = 0 .138 V /nm and carrier density ne =

−0.79 × 10 12 cm −2. b, Correspondence between measured ∆ B and reconstructed ρs at the spatial locations marked in panel a by solid triangle, circle, and star, respectively. 21 

Extended Data Fig. 7. Spatial imaging of the Meissner effect versus temperature at Bz = 150 μT .22 

Extended Data Fig. 8. Additional temperature dependence data. a , Spatial map of Tc obtained by fitting local ∆ B

with T . b, Lower bound of the confidence interval for the fits shown in panel a. c, Upper bound of the confidence interval for the fits shown in panel a. d, The half width of 95% condidence interval of the fitting in panels a-c. e–h , Examples of local Tc

fitting at positions indicated in panel a. i–j , Additional high-resolution ∆ B(T ) or ρs(T ) curves at the spatial locations marked by diamond and star in panel a. 23 

Extended Data Fig. 9. Linearity between ρs and ∆B in the full temperature range. a-d , The −ρs/∆B versus measured ∆ B at locations labeled with solid triangle, diamond, circle, and star in Extended Data Fig. 8a. The error bar shows the confidence interval of ρs normalized by −∆B.

Extended Data Fig. 10. Transport characterization of nSOT-induced heating. (a , Rxx as a function of n and mixing chamber temperature TMC at D = 0 .138 V/nm with nSOT grounded. b, Rxx as a function of n at various TMC at D = 0 .138 V/nm with nSOT grounded. c, Rxx as a function of n at various TMC at D = 0 .138 V/nm with the nSOT biased into the voltage state (standard measurement bias) at a height of 200 nm above the device. d, Rxx as a function of n at TMC = 250 mK and D = 0 .138 V/nm, varying the height of the nSOT biased into the voltage state. There is a weak dependence on height relative to the overall heating from the tip. 24 

Extended Data Table I. Summary of nSOT measurement conditions. Measurement conditions for each nSOT mea-surement. In order, we report the measured distance between the surface of the device and the nSOT tip, the temperature of the mixing chamber TM C , the applied Bz , the size of the square wave voltage ∆ Vbg , whether the sample cell is under vacuum or in He exchange gas, and the calibrated temperature Tactual accounting for tip heating (see Methods). Panel nSOT-device dist. (nm) TMC (mK) Bz (μT) ∆Vbg (V) Cell Tactual (mK) Fig. 1c 150 50 +150 -0.9 Vacuum 70 Fig. 1e 200 50 +150 +0.35 Vacuum 70 Fig. 1g 200 Variable +150 +0.35 Vacuum Variable Fig. 2a,c,d,e 200 50 Variable +0.35 Exchange gas 210 Fig. 3a 150 50 +750 -0.9 Exchange gas 210 Fig. 3c 150 50 ± 100 -0.9 Exchange gas 210 Fig. 4b 200 50 +150 +0.35 Vacuum 70 Fig. 5a,b,d 200 Variable + 150 +0.35 Vacuum Variable Extended Data Fig. 3c-d 200 50 +150 +0.35 Vacuum 70 Extended Data Fig. 3f 150 50 +250 Variable ( ne = 0) Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 4 200 50 Variable +0.35 Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 5c-d 200 50 +250 -0.9 Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 5e 150 50 Variable -0.9 Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 6a 200 50 +150 +0.35 Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 6b 150 50 +150 +0.35 Exchange gas 210 Extended Data Fig. 7 ( T < 210 mK) 200 Variable 150 +0.35 Vacuum Variable Extended Data Fig. 7 ( T > 210 mK) 200 Variable 150 +0.35 Exchange gas Variable Extended Data Fig. 8i-j 200 Variable 150 +0.35 Vacuum Variable