Title: Generation of dipolar supersolids through a barrier sweep in droplet lattices

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.29203v1

Published Time: Wed, 01 Apr 2026 00:31:44 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Generation of dipolar supersolids through a barrier sweep in droplet lattices 

E. L. Brakensiek, 1 G. A. Bougas, 1 and S. I. Mistakidis 1

> 1

Department of Physics and LAMOR, Missouri University of Science and Technology, Rolla, MO 65409, USA 

(Dated: April 1, 2026) We propose a dynamical protocol to generate supersolids in dipolar quantum gases by sweeping a repulsive Gaussian barrier through an incoherent quasi-one-dimensional droplet array. Supersolidity is inferred by monitoring the ensuing dynamics of the density, momentum distribution, center-of-mass motion, and superfluid fraction within the framework of the extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation with quantum corrections. A persistent superfluid background arises, atop which the crystals os-cillate in unison, indicating the establishment of phase coherence. This process is accompanied by energy redistribution and the gradual transfer of higher-lying momenta toward the zero momentum mode. The dependence of the superfluid fraction on the barrier velocity and height is also elucidated evincing the parametric regions which facilitate the rise of a superfluid background. Our results pave the way for engineering supersolid generation using experimentally accessible protocols. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Ultracold dipolar quantum gases offer pristine plat-forms for unraveling the effect of long-range anisotropic interactions which give rise to enriched many-body phases of matter and complex nonequilibrium behav-ior [1–3]. These interactions originate from either the magnetic moments of the atoms [2] or the electric dipole moments of polar molecules [4, 5]. Utilizing magnetic atoms, which we focus herein, dipolar Bose-Einstein con-densates (dBECs) have been experimentally realized first with Chromium atoms [6], and subsequently with lan-thanides such as Dysprosium [7], Erbium [8] and Eu-ropium [9]. Here, the interplay between long- and short-range interactions gives rise to the softening of the roton mode [10–14] facilitating wave collapse that is prevented in the presence of quantum fluctuations commonly mod-eled by the Lee-Huang-Yang (LHY) correction term [15]. This mechanism gives rise to exotic states dubbed super-solids [16, 17] and droplets [18] that have been observed in the laboratory, but also more complex configurations [19– 22] such as pumpkin, honeycomb, and labyrinthines that are yet to be realized. A standard theory framework de-scribing adequately the aforementioned magnetic states and incorporating the LHY contribution is the extended Gross-Pitaevskii model [23, 24], see also Refs [25–29] for advanced ab-initio methods. This framework is much less accurate for polar molecules due to the excessively larger dipolar interactions [30]. Supersolids are among the most intriguing dipolar phase of matter as they combine the frictionless flow of a superfluid with the periodic density modulation of a crystal [31]. Hence, they simultaneously break the U(1) gauge symmetry associated with global phase co-herence and the continuous translational symmetry yield-ing crystalline order [17, 18, 32]. Due to the sponta-neously broken translational symmetry, these states ac-commodate additional sound mode branches [33–36]. Be-sides magnetic atoms, supersolidity has been detected in completely different settings ranging from Rydberg gases [37, 38], spin-orbit coupled condensates [39], atoms in cavity fields [40, 41] and more recently in the dy-namics of parametrically driven short-range bosonic sys-tems [42]. The supersolid properties have been inten-sively studied in the past few years aiming to understand the solid nature of the supersolid phase. Notable insights have been gained, for instance, from the excitation spec-trum of these states via Bogoliubov de-Gennes analy-sis [35, 43, 44], their collective excitations [45–47], the im-pact of the external trap [20, 48] dictating the symmetry of the ensuing structures, the characteristics of quantum vortices [49–51], associated tunneling processes [52, 53], the emergence of shear waves [54] and their elastic prop-erties [55–57]. Despite the realization of supersolids in dipolar quan-tum gases via interaction quenches [16, 58, 59], an open question remains regarding the mechanisms that catalyze the dynamical generation of supersolidity. Recent work revealed that supersolid features are facilitated when a dipolar gas is heated, leading to a counterintuitive roton softening [60]. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the presence of a minority component in binary dipolar mix-tures favors the creation of supersolids in an otherwise unmodulated phase [61]. In a similar vein, the introduc-tion of fermionic impurities in a bosonic dipolar gas also promotes supersolidity [62, 63]. Here, we take an alternative route and propose the dy-namical generation of a supersolid starting from a fully incoherent elongated droplet lattice which is externally perturbed by a repulsive Gaussian barrier. The latter fa-cilitates the inelastic collision of the initially incoherent crystals resulting in the gradual build-up of a superfluid background. Our three dimensional dipolar gas consists of Dysprosium atoms and it features weak (tight) har-monic confinement along the axial (transverse) direction. It is initiated in its ground-state quasi-one-dimensional (quasi-1D) droplet lattice structure in the suitable inter-action regime, and it is subsequently perturbed by the barrier, see Fig. 1. Recall that similar barrier sweeps have been widely used in short-range superfluids to create soli-tary wave structures [64–67], dispersive shock waves [68– 70] and vortical patterns [71–73]. We find that the potential barrier sweeps induce in-

> arXiv:2603.29203v1 [cond-mat.quant-gas] 31 Mar 2026

2elastic collisions accompanied by particle tunneling be-tween the originally incoherent droplet crystals. This process gives rise to a superfluid background coexisting with the crystalline density modulations which is a hall-mark of supersolidity [31, 32]. Notably, this behavior occurs within the droplet interaction regime, i.e. the rel-ative strength between dipolar and short-range interac-tions is larger than unity. The dynamical formation of supersolidity is testified through characteristic measures. In particular, following the build-up of a superfluid background the post-collision droplet crystals feature synchronized oscillations upon the finite background. This is suggestive of the estab-lishment of global phase coherence, while the persistence of the crystal structures provides evidence of their rigid character [34]. The frequency of the in-sync crystal os-cillations is significantly low compared to the one of the trap, which is a characteristic of collective excitations of dipolar supersolids [74, 75]. Moreover, a gradual transfer from higher momenta toward lower-lying ones and no-tably to a pronounced zero-momentum peak takes place after the barrier drag, which is another manifestation of supersolidity [31]. The latter is also evinced by the increase of the superfluid fraction following the barrier drag. The superfluid fraction serves as an order param-eter, delineating the supersolid formation regimes with respect to both the velocity and height of the barrier. For instance, at moderate velocities the superfluid back-ground is pronounced, while after a critical velocity the droplet array remains almost un-perturbed and the su-perfluid fraction is suppressed. This work is structured as follows. Section II describes the considered dipolar Dysprosium gas along with the suitable extended Gross-Pitaevskii framework and the sweep protocol of the external Gaussian barrier. In Sec-tion III, we elaborate on the dynamical nucleation of su-persolid configurations by employing suitable diagnostic measures. We conclude and discuss future research direc-tions inspired by our results in Section IV. Appendix A showcases the persistence of supersolid features in the presence of three-body recombination processes. In Ap-pendix B we address the impact of the size of the initial droplet array on the supersolid creation, while in Ap-pendix C further details are provided on our numerical simulations.  

> II. DROPLET ARRAY AND SWEEP PROTOCOL

We consider a quasi-1D array of dipolar droplets at zero temperature, see also Fig. 1(a). The relative in-teraction ratio between long- and short-range coupling is tuned to be larger than unity (see also below) such that we enter the droplet regime [2]. The ensuing droplet array consists of N = 8 × 10 4 164 Dy atoms, all of them polarized along the z axis with the aid of a magnetic field. The array is confined by means of       

> FIG. 1. (a) Schematic illustration of the driving protocol. A Gaussian barrier (red shaded region) located at x0and being characterized by height V0and waist w, is swept towards a quasi-1D array of 164 Dy droplets (blue shaded area). (b) The barrier sweep results in the dynamical generation of a super-solid, exhibiting an excited superfluid background, denoted by the green shading, on top of which crystalline structures persist.

a harmonic potential with the following trap frequen-cies ( ωx, ω y , ω z ) = 2 π × (19 , 53 , 81) Hz, yielding an elon-gated cigar-shaped geometry similarly to the recent ex-periments of Refs. [18, 76]. To determine the ground-state droplet configuration of the dBEC in the above quasi-1D geometry as well as track the emergent dynamics, an extended mean-field de-scription is adopted [77–81], see also Appendix C. This has been shown to be capable of adequately addressing different superfluid, supersolid and droplet phases of the dipolar gas [82, 83]. In particular, the dipolar quantum gas is described by a macroscopic wave function Ψ( r, t ), obeying the following extended Gross-Pitaevskii equation (eGPE) [2], 

iℏ∂tΨ( r, t ) = 

"

− ℏ2

2m ∇2 + V (r, t ) + 4πℏ2am |Ψ( r, t )|2

+

Z

d3r′ Udd (r − r′) |Ψ( r′, t )|2

+γ(ϵdd ) |Ψ( r, t )|3

#

Ψ( r, t ), (1) where r = ( x, y, z ), ℏ is the reduced Planck constant, and m is the atomic mass. The first term refers to the kinetic energy, and the second to the external confine-ment experienced by the atoms, see also the following discussion. An important aspect of dipolar gases is the competition between both short-range (third term) and long-range (fourth term) interactions. The short-range interaction is characterized by the scattering length a,3                   

> FIG. 2. Spatiotemporal 1D integrated density, n(x, t ), evolution of the droplet lattice consisting of four crystals after being perturbed by a Gaussian barrier. The latter travels with different velocities (see legends) toward the droplet array. The barrier trajectory is illustrated by the red dashed line. At long evolution times, following the crystal collisions, atom redistribution gives rise to a superfluid background atop which the post-collision crystals oscillate in-sync, thereby manifesting the emergence of supersolidity. The vertical dash-dotted lines designate the three distinct dynamical regimes corresponding to the unperturbed crystal lattice (I), the droplet collisions (II), and the superfluid background nucleation (III). In all cases, the characteristics of the Gaussian barrier correspond to V0= 10 ℏωx, and w= 0 .31 μm , while the system consists of N= 8 ×10 4 164 Dy atoms with
> a= 86 a0and add = 131 a0.

tunable by means of Fano-Feshbach resonances [84, 85]. Here, in order to achieve the quasi-1D droplet array, a scattering length a = 86 a0 is employed, with a0 repre-senting the Bohr radius. On the other hand, the dipolar long-range anisotropic interaction potential reads 

Udd (r) = 3ℏ2add 

m

 1 − 3 cos 2 θ

r3



. (2) Apparently, it depends on the angle θ between the line connecting two dipoles and the z axis. In contrast to the short-range scattering length, the dipolar length of 

> 164

Dy is fixed to add = 131 a0. In our setup, ground-state droplet configurations exist in the short-range in-teraction regime a < 90 a0, while supersolids [superflu-ids] take place for a ∈ (90 , 100) a0 [a > 100 a0]. The ground states of our system are obtained via imaginary time propagation method of the eGPE [Eq. (1)]; for fur-ther details of this approach see Appendix C. The final term in Eq. (1) is instrumental in properly stabilizing high-density structures such as droplet arrays or supersolids, both of them occurring at large interac-tion strength ratios, ϵdd = add /a . Such a contribution stems from the LHY correction to the dipolar mean-field energy functional within the local density approxima-tion [23, 86]. The relevant coefficient is explicitly given by γ(ϵdd ) = 128 ℏ2√πa 5/2

> 3m

 1 + 32 ϵ2dd 

 [23]. To probe the dynamical response of the droplet crystal and nucleate supersolidity, the following driving protocol is devised. A Gaussian barrier, characterized by height 

V0 and width w, is dragged towards the droplet array with speed v0 [see also the schematic in Fig. 1(a)]. Ini-tially, the barrier is placed far away from the array, at position x0 = −27 μm , so that no overlap occurs be-tween the beam and the atoms. The moving barrier can be experimentally realized by shining and subsequently sweeping a focused laser beam [87, 88], hence modifying the trapping potential of the dipolar atoms. Explicitly, the time-dependent external potential takes the form 

V (r, t ) = X

> k=x, y,z

( mω 2

> k

k2

2 )+ V0 exp 

(

− [x − (x0 + v0t)] 2

2w2

)

.

(3) Since our ultimate goal is to significantly perturb the droplet lattice, the barrier height and width are chosen to be comparable to the chemical potential, |μ| ≃ 30 ℏωx,of the ground-state configuration and the full-width-at-half-maximum, σ, of the droplet peaks respectively, 

σ = 0 .9 μm . For this reason, we use V0 = 10 ℏωx, and 

w = 0 .31 μm . Moreover, the selected barrier speeds are comparable to the velocity scale set by the chemical po-tential of the droplet lattice in its ground-state, namely 

vg = p|μ| /m = 1 .17 μm/ms . 

> III. BARRIER SWEEP INDUCED SUPERSOLIDITY

The above-discussed dynamical protocol leads to a re-sponse quite distinct from just exciting the normal modes of droplets, a process that can be modeled by coupled oscillators as reported in Refs. [34, 89]. Specifically, it will be demonstrated that when the Gaussian barrier ap-proaches the droplet crystal it perturbs the latter giv-ing rise to droplet collisions accompanied by significant atom and energy redistribution. For longer evolution times, where the barrier is outside of the crystal lat-tice, the aforementioned processes result in an apprecia-ble superfluid background beneath the droplets. This clearly hints toward the creation of a supersolid configu-ration [Fig. 1(b)] notably in the interaction regime where ground-state droplet states exist. Such a mechanism is easily visualized by inspecting the integrated 1D densities, n(x, t ) = R dydz |Ψ( r, t )|2,that can be experimentally traced through single-shot in-situ measurements [90]. The corresponding density evolution for different velocities of the barrier are pre-4           

> FIG. 3. Droplet inelastic collisions induced by the barrier sweep at selected time instants of the density evolution (see legends) yielding the appearance of a superfluid background. The integrated 1D density profiles, n(x, t ), have been rescaled and shifted appropriately to ensure a proper visualization. The barrier velocity refers to (a1)-(a5) v0≈1.46 μm/ms ,and (b1)-(b6) v0≈3.01 μm/ms , see also Fig. 2(a), (c). All other parameters are the same as in Fig. 2.

sented in Fig. 2. Apparently, three distinct dynamical stages can be discerned, denoted by the roman letters in Fig. 2. The first one (I) refers to early evolution times, where the Gaussian barrier (its trajectory denoted by the tilted red dashed line in Fig. 2) has not yet reached the first ( x ≃ − 7 μm ) crystal of the droplet array. Such a regime occurs within the interval t ≤ t∗ = |∆x| /v 0,where |∆x| = 19 .5 μm is the distance between the initial barrier’s position and the nearest droplet peak. Natu-rally, within this time interval the droplet array remains stationary irrespective of the barrier velocity. We remark that the initial droplets do not remain stationary in the presence of three-body recombination. Instead, they drift toward the trap center and lose population already within this first dynamical stage, as discussed in Appendix A.  

> A. Droplet collisions

The second stage (II), which is drastically more com-plex compared to the first one, involves the head-on colli-sion of the Gaussian barrier with the crystals, leading to subsequent interactions between the individual droplets, see also the density snapshots shown in Fig. 3. The bar-rier first collides with the nearest ( x ≃ − 7 μm ) crystal of the droplet array, which becomes excited, emitting par-ticles in the form of a small density trail attached to the left of the first droplet [Fig. 3 (a1), (b1)]. This pro-cess alludes to the self-evaporation mechanism present in dipolar quantum droplets [91]. Subsequently, the excited first droplet forms a colli-sional complex with the second droplet, characterized by a significant in-between density overlap, facilitating par-ticle tunneling [53, 92] among the crystals. Eventually, the first droplet recoils to the left [Fig. 3(a2), (b2)] due to the repulsion experienced by dipolar droplets collid-ing along the direction transverse to their polarization axis [93, 94]. After the collision the amplitude of the participating droplet peaks changes, thereby highlight-ing the aforementioned tunneling processes [Fig. 3(b2)]. The second droplet is now excited both due to the en-suing inelastic collisions with the first droplet, but also because of the emitted particles originating from self-evaporation of the first droplet. Moreover, the kick pro-vided by the latter is sufficient to lead to consecutive collisions of the second droplet with the rest of the crys-tals in the droplet array. An avalanche mechanism thus takes place, where the droplet crystals become further excited by the emitted particles from the other droplets (owing to their self-evaporation) and also by the tunnel-ing induced by the inelastic collisions between the crys-tals [Fig. 3 (a3), (a4), (b3) and (b4)]. The imprint of the above-discussed tunneling processes is the change in the amplitude of the involved droplets during their interac-tions. In the third stage (III) occurring at long evolution times, e.g. t > 1500 ms , the agglomeration of all the emitted particles stemming from the inelastic droplet col-lisions results in the development of a significant super-fluid background [Fig. 3(a5), (b5) and (b6)]. This su-perfluid background persists for longer evolution times, even in the presence of experimentally relevant three-body losses, see also Appendix A. At the same time, the individual droplet peaks oscillate in-sync, almost free of any inelastic collisions [Fig. 2]. This hints towards the establishment of phase coherence among them, which is a central property of supersolids [95]. Both the in-sync droplet motion and the superfluid fraction are affected by the barrier velocity. The impact of the latter refers mostly to the degree of excitation of the superfluid sub-strate [c.f. Fig. 2(a) and (c)] and the amplitude of the col-lective droplet excitations [c.f. Fig. 2(c) and (d)]. The ef-fect of v0 will become more evident in the following, see in particular Fig. 6(a) and also the discussion in Sec. III D. It is important to note that the formation of the superfluid background occurs for large barrier heights, 

V0 ≳ 7 ℏωx ∼ | μ| /4, see also the discussion in Sec. III D and Fig. 6(b). For smaller V0 the interaction of the bar-rier with the droplets is weaker, and as a consequence the droplet array undergoes a collective motion similar to the normal modes of a 1D crystal chain [34, 89]. In contrast, for V0 ≳ |μ| the kinetic energy imparted by the barrier to the array is comparable and larger than the binding energy of the array, and hence the barrier drag 5  

> FIG. 4. Time-evolution of the 1D momentum distribution for two different barrier velocities (see legends). The gradual formation of a superfluid background at long evolution times becomes evident from the underlying momentum transfer to-ward the zero momentum peak. This process is associated with the dynamical generation of the supersolid. The vertical dashed lines delineate the same dynamical regimes, i.e. I, II and III, identified in Fig. 2. The remaining system parame-ters are the same as in Fig. 2.

entails melting of the droplet lattice.  

> B. Superfluid background nucleation

To further support the emergence of a supersolid con-figuration caused by the barrier sweep, we next invoke additional observables in order to justify the creation of the superfluid background and the rigidity of the crys-tals. A relevant measure is the 1D momentum distri-bution, n(kx, t ) = R dx e −ik xxpn(x, t ) 2

that can be experimentally obtained via time-of-flight imaging [58]. The dynamics of n(kx, t ) is depicted in Fig. 4 for two paradigmatic barrier velocities. It can be readily seen that initially ( t = 0), a well-defined series of momentum peaks is significantly populated in a hierarchical order as a result of the existent lattice structure of the droplet array, see also Fig. 1(a). In particular, the first promi-nent sideband occurring at kxls ≃ ± 0.13 in Fig. 4(a) and (b) refers to the lattice spacing, stemming from the ro-ton minimum present in the excitation spectrum of the dipolar gas [13]. Note that multiples of that peak appear with smaller amplitude, which is attributed to the devi-ations of the droplet array from a regular lattice. Here, 

ls = ℏ/pm |μ| is the characteristic length scale set by the chemical potential of the initial state [96]. Upon the interaction of the barrier with the droplet array (onset of stage II) the momentum peaks become distorted, a behavior that reflects the loss of the lattice structure due to the inter-droplet collisions. Note that this dynamical response interval depends on the velocity of the barrier, since the latter collides with the droplets at time instants which are inversely proportional to v0. As such, it occurs within the interval t ∈ (340 , 1051) ms [t ∈

(186 , 601) ms ] for v0 = 1 .85 μm/ms [v0 = 3 .5 μm/ms ]as shown in Fig. 4(a) [Fig. 4(b)]. At longer evolution times, e.g. t > 1000 ms in Fig. 4(a), a regular series of momentum peaks appears again, displaying an oscilla-tory behavior. This is attributed to the in-sync collective motion of the droplet peaks, see also Fig. 2, leading to a rearrangement of the crystal lattice structure, which in turn affects the lattice spacing. Also, the almost con-stant peak amplitude of the individual momentum modes suggests the suppression of tunneling between the crys-tals mediated by the superfluid background within this dynamical stage III. Simultaneously, the amplitude of the zero momentum peak acquires substantial popula-tion, becoming the dominant momentum mode, a fea-ture that persists at even longer evolution times. Such an enhancement is linked to momentum transfer from higher- to lower-lying modes and importantly to the zero momentum mode. This further corroborates the devel-opment of a pronounced superfluid substrate, since the latter is always associated with a sharp zero momentum peak in Fourier space [97].  

> C. Energy injection and center-of-mass motion

Apart from the pronounced superfluid background an-other important dynamical feature pointing towards the nucleation of a supersolid is the in-sync motion of the droplets at later evolution times [Fig. 2], and in par-ticular within stage III. In fact, such a motion resem-bles the dipole mode of the center-of-mass of dBECs and normal BECs, when displaced from the center of a har-monic trap [98]. To further quantify this collective be-havior, we inspect the time evolution of the center-of-mass, ⟨x(t)⟩ = R dx x n (x, t ), presented in Fig. 5(a) for different velocities of the Gaussian barrier. At long evo-lution times the frequency of the droplet peak oscillations is roughly 3 Hz, regardless of the barrier velocity. The latter affects mainly the amplitude and phase of the os-cillations. In particular, for large v0 the collective motion of the crystals becomes more pronounced as inferred by the increased amplitude of ⟨x(t)⟩ [Fig. 5(a)]. The frequency of oscillations is much smaller than the trap frequency along the weakly confined direction, 6     

> FIG. 5. (a) Dynamics of the center-of-mass of the dipolar gas,
> ⟨x⟩, for different barrier velocities (see legend) capturing the collective motion triggered by the barrier sweep. This col-lective motion, in particular, occurs at evolution times where the barrier is long past the dipolar gas (regime III). (b) The time-evolution of the associated chemical potential exhibits an increase (regime II) and a subsequent oscillatory behav-ior (regime III) unveiling underlying energy redistribution in-duced by the barrier drag. Afterwards, the chemical poten-tial shows a saturation tendency toward a value larger than the respective μof the initial droplet ground-state but in the ballpark of the supersolid ground-state phase marked by the shaded area. This occurs in the dynamical stage III, where the superfluid background has been established and remains persistent. The parameters for the potential barrier and the dipolar gas are the same as in Fig. 2.

namely ωx/(2 π) = 19 Hz. Therefore, the aforemen-tioned in-sync oscillations can not be solely attributed to the dipole motion of the center-of-mass, whose frequency should coincide with ωx/(2 π) in this quasi-1D geometry. Instead, the dynamics of ⟨x(t)⟩ alludes to the presence of other low energy modes [89]. Low-frequency collec-tive modes are actually absent in normal superfluids, but rather exist in dipolar supersolids [74, 75], e.g. the out-of-phase Goldstone mode. Such low-frequency collective modes can lead to a decrease in the time period of the center-of-mass oscillations, as reported in the dynami-cal response of supersolids driven out-of-equilibrium by means of momentum kicks [89]. In addition, the decay of the center-of-mass oscillations observed in Fig. 5(a) can also be attributed to the presence of low-energy col-lective modes [89], and to the energy exchange between the crystal and the superfluid background. Note that, in the case of a potential defect dragged through a dipolar superfluid, there is no decay of the center-of-mass oscil-lations, and the oscillation frequency is approximately 

ωx/(2 π) [not shown for brevity]. This further supports our argument for the existence of low energy modes in our dynamically created supersolid. The decay of the center-of-mass oscillations in the course of the evolution, underscores the importance of en-ergy redistribution processes in the dynamical generation of a supersolid. To further understand such processes, we resort to the evolution of the chemical potential μ(t) for different velocities [Fig. 5(b)]. The chemical potential roughly refers to the total energy per particle and pro-vides further information regarding the energy injection from the barrier defect to the droplet array, as well as the in-sync oscillations of the latter at later evolution times. At initial times within the first (pre-collision) dynamical stage I, μ(t) is constant, reflecting the invariance of the droplet array prior to the interaction with the barrier, see also Fig. 2. Of course, the duration of such a regime depends inversely proportional to v0, since it occurs up to t ≤ t∗.At the onset of stage II, after the Gaussian defect hits the first droplet peak, a steep linear increase occurs in the chemical potential. The slope of such a linear response depends on v0, with larger slopes associated with faster moving barriers, which impart a larger amount of kinetic energy to the droplet array. During the stage related to the droplet collisions (see region II in Figs. 2 and 4), a nonlinear response is observed in μ(t), which then tran-sitions to an oscillatory behavior at late evolution times. Such a response refers to the third dynamical stage (III) related with the generation of a supersolid. The oscilla-tions feature a decaying trend, and the damping mecha-nism is the same as the one responsible for the damping of the center-of-mass oscillations [Fig. 5(a)], i.e. the energy exchange between the droplet peaks and the underlying superfluid background. The mean values of μ(t) feature a saturation tendency toward the chemical potential re-gion associated with supersolids in the ground-state of our system. Such a region is marked by the shaded area in Fig. 5(b). Importantly, this is achieved dynamically due to the driving protocol while keeping the interactions fixed corresponding to the ground-state droplet region. Notice that μ(t > 2000 ms ) is slightly larger than the respective chemical potential values in the supersolid phase of the ground-state. This behavior is traced back to the fact that the dipolar gas is excited due to its colli-sion with the potential barrier. Even if it acquires super-solid characteristics, its energy and chemical potential are (at least slightly) larger than the ones corresponding to the respective supersolid ground-state phases. Regarding the individual energy contributions, the LHY and dipo-lar energies both decrease in magnitude at late evolution times, when the system enters stage III (not shown for brevity). Such a trend provides a further hint towards 7the establishment of a supersolid state, which is charac-terized by a smaller contribution of the dipolar and LHY energies as compared to the isolated droplets. Moreover, the barrier collision with the droplet array results in the enhancement of the kinetic energy of the dipolar gas, since the center-of-mass of the latter is set to a persis-tent motion.  

> D. Superfluid fraction

To understand the dynamical generation of a super-solid in a more systematic way, we employ the super-fluid fraction as a relevant order parameter. In partic-ular, we utilize the upper bound of the superfluid frac-tion [53, 99, 100] which reads 

f us = 2 L2

Z L

> −L

dx n(x, t )

!−1

. (4) Note that the above measure pertains to gases set in ro-tation in annular geometries 1 [100], and therefore it is employed here only in a heuristic sense. The main ad-vantage of such a measure are the well-defined bounds of the homogeneous superfluid and isolated droplet phases, where f us = 1 and f us = 0 respectively. Notably, for su-persolids it holds that 0 < f us < 1, depending on the amplitude of the underlying superfluid background. Since our dipolar gas is confined in a harmonic trap, which enforces a density curvature even in the superfluid phase, the upper bound of f us is different than unity [102]. Moreover, it depends on the choice of the [ −L, L ] spatial integration interval. Here, we choose L = 20 μm which is able to cover the entire spatial extent of the ground-state configuration (including all crystals) and can accommo-date at least two droplet peaks during the evolution, see also Fig. 2. For such a choice, the superfluid fraction of three representative ground states, of our harmonically trapped dBEC, corresponding to fully formed droplets, supersolids and superfluids at a = 86 , 96 , 130 a0 is 

f us = 0 , 0.2, 0.4 respectively. Hence, it is evident that within this length scale set by L, droplets are always characterized by f us = 0, while supersolids display a su-perfluid fraction larger than zero. In fact, f us = 0 .4 in the ground-state transition region from supersolid to su-perfluid of our setup occurring at a = 100 a0. Hence, 0 < f us < 0.4 indicates the dynamical nucleation of su-persolids in our setting [103]. The superfluid fraction therefore represents an order parameter during the dynamics resulting in the phase diagrams shown in Fig. 6. These underline the effect of the barrier velocity or height on the dynamical formation of supersolidity. Focusing on the impact of the velocity                                  

> 1or atom chains with periodic boundary conditions and a phase twist [53, 101].
> FIG. 6. Time-evolution of the superfluid fraction, fus[Eq. (4)] with respect to (a) the barrier velocity and V0= 10 ℏωx
> fixed as well as (b) the barrier height and constant velocity
> v0= 1 .36 μm/ms .The 164 Dy dipolar atoms, N= 8 ×10 4,are initialized in a droplet array with four crystals being sub-jected to a Gaussian barrier sweep with velocity v0.This process leads to the nucleation of a supersolid, as inferred by the increase of the superfluid fraction in the course of the evo-lution within the velocity range v0∈(0 ,6) μm/ms in panel (a) and the height interval V0∈(7 ,15) ℏωxdepicted in panel (b). These parametric regions are marked as “Supersolids” in panels (a), (b). The white dashed line in both panels corre-sponds to t=t∗, delineating the first instant that the barrier collides with the outermost crystal. The vertical arrows in panel (a) mark selected barrier velocities, displayed in Fig. 2. Other system parameters are the same with the ones of Fig. 2.

for fixed height, see Fig. 6(a), reveals that before the bar-rier hits the initial droplet array, the superfluid fraction is consistently zero regardless of the barrier velocity. This is the dynamical regime I occurring at t ≤ t∗, see the white dashed line in Fig. 6(a) representing t = t∗.For evolution times t > t ∗, two superfluid fraction re-sponse regimes can be distinguished depending on the barrier’s velocity. More concretely, for v0 > 6 μm/ms 

the fraction f us remains zero throughout the evolution including the dynamical stages II and III. This is the diabatic driving regime, where the barrier moves much faster than the characteristic velocity set by the chemi-cal potential of the droplet array in its ground-state, i.e. 

v0 ≫ vg . As a result, the dipolar gas remains almost en-tirely unperturbed even at significantly longer evolution times following the collision with the barrier. In contrast, for v0 ≲ vg the superfluid fraction be-comes finite and oscillatory for t > t∗, characterized 8by small amplitude and multi-frequency oscillations. In fact, the time-averaged value of f us within stage III be-comes comparable to the superfluid fraction pertaining to the stationary supersolid states of our setup taking place at scattering lengths a ∈ [92 , 97] a0 and charac-terized by f us = [0 .08 , 0.3]. Such a behavior is further supported by the long-time evolution of the chemical po-tential [Fig. 5(b)]. Recall that the long-time damped oscillations of μ(t) take place around the chemical po-tential values referring to the supersolid ground states, see the shaded area in Fig. 5(b). Overall, the super-fluid fraction becomes finite after the barrier is dragged through the droplet array, namely at the end of dynam-ical stage II and through the entire regime III, retaining its finite value even at late evolution times. Such a behav-ior, in conjunction with all the other measures presented above, is strongly suggestive of the dynamical generation of supersolids out of isolated droplets. We once more emphasize that this phenomenon takes place within the interaction regime where the dipolar gas supports only isolated droplets as its ground states. Note that at some specific barrier velocities the super-fluid fraction gets more enhanced compared to other v0,pointing towards the existence of resonant features. The latter appear also in the case of a droplet lattice with a different number of droplet peaks, see Appendix B. In-terestingly, the evolution of the chemical potential with respect to the barrier velocity, μ(t), exhibits a similar dy-namical behavior at the different velocity regimes. This implies that the aforementioned velocity dependent dy-namical regions are related to energy redistribution pro-cesses of the dipolar gas after the barrier sweep, where in particular the LHY and dipolar interaction contribu-tions decrease in magnitude followed by an increase of the kinetic energy. Another connection appears between the resonance patterns of f us and the Fourier spectra of the center-of-mass oscillations. In the case of resonant enhancement of the superfluid fraction, the Fourier dis-tributions are usually broader with many peaks. Such an observation suggests the selective excitation of collec-tive modes of the dipolar gas when the barrier collides with the latter at specific velocities. However, such an explanation is certainly not conclusive and further in-vestigation, e.g. in terms of the Bogoliubov excitation spectrum within the supersolid ground-state regime, is required in future studies. This could also possibly allow to match specific excitation branches with the frequencies participating in the oscillatory behavior of f us .For completeness, we remark that the same resonant features and overall response of f us appear also when em-ploying another order parameter for identifying super-solid formation, namely the density contrast [22, 56]. The latter yields the contrast between the high and low den-sity segment of a modulated phase, being unity in the case of isolated droplets, and acquiring values smaller than unity for supersolids. In that sense, the density contrast is complementary to the superfluid fraction pro-viding an independent verification for the build-up of su-persolidity and the overall response observed in f us .Next, we focus on the impact of the barrier height at fixed v0, see Fig. 6(b). The latter sets the t∗ time, be-fore which the droplet array remains unperturbed (stage I), as evidenced by the zero superfluid background below the white dashed line in Fig. 6(b). For t > t ∗ two dy-namical regimes of f us in terms of V0 can be discerned, similar to the response of f us with respect to the barrier velocity. First, for V0 ≲ 7 ℏωx the barrier imparts only a small amount of energy to the 164 Dy atoms, since the barrier height is only a small fraction of the droplet’s chemical potential, V0 ≲ |μ| /4. As a result the initial state is weakly perturbed, and the dynamical response refers mostly to collective droplet modes, akin to those appearing in coupled oscillators [34, 89]. In contrast, for V0 ≳ 7 ℏωx the droplets become sub-stantially excited, leading to the generation of an excited superfluid background. As a result, the superfluid frac-tion increases significantly over time, designating the dy-namical nucleation of a supersolid. Similar to the re-sponse with respect to the barrier velocity, f us becomes resonantly enhanced at particular V0. However, the res-onance patterns are quite distinct in both of these cases, implying that a moving defect is a unique probe for un-veiling the excitation spectrum of dipolar gases [104]. Again, such resonance features hint towards energy redis-tribution processes and selective excitation of collective modes, requiring a more systematic study in the future. Note that when V0 > 15 ℏωx, the barrier height starts to become comparable to the binding energy of the droplet array, |μ|, and therefore the initial state is strongly per-turbed. The crystal can even melt completely, and any signatures of supersolidity are lost (not shown).  

> IV. SUMMARY AND PERSPECTIVES

We have investigated the nonequilibrium quantum dy-namics of an elongated harmonically trapped droplet lat-tice of dipolar Dysprosium atoms subjected to a repulsive moving potential. To simulate the ground-state and the dynamical response of this setting, we deploy the suit-able extended Gross-Pitaevskii model that encompasses first-order quantum corrections to the mean-field energy functional. The initial ground-state of the droplet lattice is attained by tuning the relative strength ratio between dipolar and short-range interactions in the regime where the former dominate. The characteristics of the potential barrier, such as the width and the height, are chosen such that a significant amount of energy is injected to the initial droplet array. Consecutively, it is let to sweep with an initial velocity through the incoherent droplet lattice triggering collision events among the ensuing crystals. This process favors significant particle redistribution eventually leading to the build-up of an excited superfluid background. The time-evolution of the chemical potential highlights the crucial role of energy injection and redistribution between 9the crystalline and superfluid components in the course of the dynamics. The dynamical emergence of supersolidity is corrobo-rated by the following complementary processes. First, monitoring the underlying momentum distribution dur-ing the evolution we identify a transfer from higher mo-mentum modes to the zero-momentum peak. Second, the post-collision crystals after the barrier sweep un-dergo a collective oscillatory motion while maintaining their shape for long evolution times, which is suggestive of their rigid character. Here, the oscillation frequency of the crystals is much smaller than the trap frequency along the elongated direction, which is indicative of the pres-ence of low energy modes characteristic of supersolids. Moreover, we evaluate the associated superfluid fraction and observe its gradual development. This observable re-veals that supersolid formation is dictated by the velocity and height of the potential barrier, leading to distinct dy-namical response regimes. At moderate velocities with fixed height, the superfluid fraction is maximal featur-ing a non-monotonic behavior with the barrier velocity, while for increasing velocities the droplet lattice remains largely un-perturbed and coherence is mainly suppressed. Otherwise, for fixed velocity and varying height the su-perfluid fraction becomes prominent for heights compa-rable to the chemical potential of the initial state. Our results establish that suitable engineering of ex-ternal potentials serves as a powerful tool to generate supersolidity without requiring interaction tuning. This inspires unexplored pathways for unraveling nonequilib-rium supersolidity, defect formation, and collective ex-citations in dipolar quantum gases. A next straight-forward direction is to investigate the defect formation caused by the barrier sweep in an initially dipolar su-perfluid state aiming to unveil emission of dark soliton structures similar to past observations in short-range in-teracting gases [66]. Another interesting possibility is to explore whether similar supersolid creation can be achieved in higher dimensions where additional degrees-of-freedom are involved and distinct droplet lattices such as triangular or hexagonal configurations are formed de-pending on the atom number, external potential and in-teractions. Similarly, the study of defect generation in higher-dimensional dipolar superfluid states is also desir-able for achieving nucleation of vortical patterns [49, 50] especially in the superfluid-to-supersolid crossover. Fi-nally, considering a rotating Gaussian barrier of an initial two-dimensional supersolid configuration for dynamically nucleating vortex lattices and possibly enter the turbu-lence regime [105] is also a topic of interest. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

S.I.M acknowledges support by the Army Research Of-fice under Award number: W911NF-26-1-A043. E. L. B acknowledges financial support from the OURE pro-gram of the Missouri University of Science and Technol-ogy. S.I.M and G.A.B are thankful to H. R. Sadeghpour, T. Bland, K. Mukherjee, and P. Giannakeas, for relevant discussions on the concept of supersolidity. 

> Appendix A: Role of three-body losses on the supersolid generation

In the main text, we have demonstrated the dynam-ical nucleation of supersolid configurations by consider-ing a potential barrier crossing a quasi-1D droplet lattice with different initial velocities. For this investigation, a closed system description was assumed based on the eGPE model of Eq. (1). On the other hand, both droplet and supersolid states in relevant ultracold dipolar gas ex-periments undergo three-body losses due to their large densities [58, 106, 107]. The latter in turn may hinder the long-time observation of droplets and supersolids. As such, below we aim to explore the impact of such pro-cesses for our setup in order to showcase that supersolid formation is viable in the course of the evolution even in the presence of these mechanisms. To simulate the corresponding nonequilibrium quan-tum dynamics we again employ the eGPE described by Eq. (1) but with the additional imaginary term contri-bution −(iℏK3/2) |Ψ( r, t )|4 Ψ( r, t ) which phenomenolog-ically captures three-body loss mechanisms. Detailed discussions on loss processes in dipolar gas experiments and their competition with beyond mean-field effects can be found in Ref. [2]. This imaginary term is charac-terized by the three-body recombination rate coefficient 

K3 [59, 108, 109], which is taken here to be K3 =1.2 × 10 −40 m6/s as it was reported in the experiment of Ref. [110]. The Dysprosium gas is prepared in its ground-state four crystal droplet with a = 86 a0, as in the main text. The emergent density evolution when the system is sub-jected to a barrier sweep with velocities v0 = 1 .46 μm/ms 

and v0 = 3 .79 μm/ms is visualized in Fig. 7(a) and (b) respectively. It is evident that in both cases the inclusion of three-body losses does not inhibit the formation of the supersolid structure. However, the resulting configura-tions structurally deviate for the closed system predic-tions, compare in particular Fig. 2(a) with Fig. 7(a) and Fig. 2(d) with Fig. 7(b). Indeed, even before the collision of the potential defect with the droplet lattice (stage I) the presence of losses perturbs the crystals which start to drift toward the trap center, see Fig. 7. This is in contrast to the almost intact crystals in the absence of losses [Fig. 2(a), (d)]. Notably, after dragging the po-tential barrier (stages II and III) the resulting number and peak amplitude of the crystals are less when losses are taken into account and the accompanying superfluid background is smaller. Moreover, for smaller velocities such as v0 = 1 .46 μm/ms , the post-collision crystals of the supersolid undergo an oscillatory motion on top of the superfluid background. This response is apparently different from the one of the closed system [Fig. 2(a)], 10        

> FIG. 7. Density dynamics of the dipolar gas under barrier sweeps with different velocities (see legends) in the presence of three-body recombination. Supersolid nucleation takes place after dragging the potential barrier in both cases. It is evident that the effect of three-body losses in the ensuing dynamical response is more prominent for smaller velocities; compare with Fig. 2(a), (d). Inset presents the normalized atom num-ber, ˜N(t) = N(t)/N (0), during the time evolution for various velocities of the potential barrier (see legend). The system is initiated in the four crystal droplet array discussed in the main text and the remaining system parameters are the same as in Fig. 2.

where the crystals perform relatively much smaller am-plitude oscillations. Arguably, more prominent differences occur for rela-tively smaller barrier velocities, e.g. v0 = 1 .46 μm/ms ,since in these cases the potential defect hits the droplet lattice at later evolution times where a more significant atom fraction has been lost from the original sample. The normalized atom number, ˜N (t) = N (t)/N (0), is pre-sented in the inset of Fig. 7(a). Independently of the barrier velocity there is roughly 20% number of atoms left after t > 1000 ms which naturally suppresses both the number of crystals and the superfluid background. It also turns out that the barrier’s velocity slightly impacts the atom number at times t > 900 ms by means that smaller velocities facilitate a somewhat enhanced atom loss, e.g. ˜N (t > 1500 ms ) = 0 .11 for v0 = 1 .46 μm/ms 

and ˜N (t > 1500 ms ) = 0 .15 when v0 = 3 .01 μm/ms .This is traced back to the fact that for smaller velocities the atom loss is somewhat enhanced since the barrier col-lides later with the droplet structure, and thus the initial highly localized crystals facilitating atom decay remain un-perturbed during a longer time.                    

> FIG. 8. Superfluid fraction pertaining to the dynamical re-sponse of an initial droplet array characterized by (a) two and (b) six droplet crystals. Such configurations are realized by considering N= 25 ×10 3and N= 25 ×10 4164 Dy atoms respectively at a= 86 a0.In both cases supersolids are dy-namically generated stemming from the sweep of a Gaussian defect. The white dashed lines correspond to the time t∗of the first collision of the barrier with the nearest droplet peak. All other parameters are the same as in Fig. 6.
> Appendix B: Few to many droplet crystal response

To properly assess the dynamical nucleation of super-solids we need to also address the impact of the initial state. In that regard, we consider N = 25 × 10 3 and 

N = 25 ×10 4 magnetic atoms (in contrast to N = 8 ×10 4

presented in the main text) confined in the geometry described in Sec. II. The scattering length is set at 

a = 86 a0, and the resulting ground states are droplet arrays. In contrast to the four droplet peak arrays dis-cussed in the main text, these particle numbers lead to two and six droplet crystals respectively. Subsequently, these ground-state configurations are perturbed utilizing the barrier sweep protocol described by Eq. (3). To facil-itate direct comparison with the four crystal droplet re-sponse, we assume that the Gaussian potential possesses the same characteristics as in the main text. To quantify the possibility of supersolid nucleation we invoke the superfluid fraction order parameter [see also Eq. (4)], which is displayed in Fig. 8 for both the two-crystal [Fig. 8(a)] and the six-crystal [Fig. 8(b)] configu-rations. Initially, f us remains zero for all considered bar-rier velocities regardless of the particle numbers. Such a response holds only up to time instants t∗ (stage I) preceding the barrier collision with the droplet array, de-noted by the white dashed lines. Similar to the scenario with four droplet peaks, two 11 distinct dynamical regimes of f us are discerned at longer evolution times belonging to consecutive stages II and III. For large barrier velocities, v0 ≳ 6 μm/ms , the droplet arrays remain almost unperturbed, as inferred by the zero superfluid fraction. The critical velocity beyond which the superfluid fraction remains zero has a weak depen-dence on the particle number. In particular, the crit-ical v0 is slightly larger in the six-crystal initial state [c.f. Fig. 8(a) and (b)]. The six-crystal has a larger spa-tial extent and therefore an enhanced potential energy as compared to the smaller sized lattice. As a result the binding energy, |μ|, of the N = 25 × 10 4 crystal is higher and therefore a larger barrier velocity is required to attain the diabatic regime, characterized by v0 ≫ p|μ| /m .For smaller barrier velocities a clear enhancement of the superfluid fraction occurs regardless of the particle number. On average, f us is slightly larger in the case of two crystals, e.g. at v0 = 4 μm/ms . Such a behavior is rooted in the partition of the defect’s energy among many droplet peaks. Every individual droplet peak be-comes more excited in the case of smaller crystal arrays as compared to larger ones, since it can absorb a larger amount of energy. As a consequence, the avalanche mech-anism triggered by the droplet collisions and leading to particle tunneling and emission described in Sec. III A is more efficient in the case of a smaller crystal. Therefore, a more pronounced superfluid background can appear, i.e. a larger superfluid fraction. In fact, the dynamical con-figuration of the two-crystal case presented in Fig. 8(a), encompassing both the superfluid background and the crystals themselves, becomes significantly perturbed at long evolution times (not shown for brevity). Similar to the four-droplet array addressed in the main text [Fig. 6(a)], f us becomes resonantly enhanced at some specific barrier velocities. The location of these reso-nances greatly depends on the particle number and hence the structure of the droplet array, alluding to the ex-citation of internal modes, which are distinct in every ground-state. The persistence of supersolid generation for different atom numbers together with the dependence of the parametric regions of enhanced superfluid back-ground suggest the many-body character of the underly-ing mechanism. 

> Appendix C: Numerical scheme

To obtain the ground-state and monitor the emergent nonequilibrium quantum dynamics of the 3D harmoni-cally trapped dipolar gas under the influence of the mov-ing Gaussian barrier, we numerically solve the eGPE de-scribed by Eq. (1) in the main text. For convenience, the dimensionless form of the eGPE is utilized, where the 3D wave function is rescaled as Ψ( r, t ) = pN/l 3

> x

ψ(r′, t ′), with the primed variables being dimensionless. Also, the spatial and temporal scales are expressed with respect to the harmonic oscillator length lx = pℏ/mω x and the inverse trap frequency ω−1 

> x

of the elongated direction re-spectively. To numerically handle the dipolar interaction potential which diverges as r−3 at small interparticle dis-tances, we employ the convolution theorem [111, 112] 

Z

d3r′ Udd (r − r′) |Ψ( r′, t )|2 = F−1h

F[Udd ] · F [|Ψ|2]

i

.

(C1) In this expression, F and F−1 represent the Fourier transform and its inverse respectively. Particularly, the Fourier transform of Udd is regular [112], rendering the long-range interaction potential numerically well-defined and stable. For the identification of the system’s ground-state, es-pecially in the droplet and supersolid regimes, it is cru-cial to use an appropriate wave function ansatz, based on symmetry considerations, which in the quasi-1D geome-try reads Ψ( x, y, z ) = A e−  

> 
> x22l2
> x
> +y22l2
> y
> +z22l2
> z
> 

sin 2

 kx lx



. (C2) Here, the parameter k is varied in order to achieve the energetically lowest (ground) state configuration, while A is a normalization constant and (ly , l z ) =(pℏ/mω y , pℏ/mω z ) stand for the harmonic oscillator lengths across the transverse y- and z-directions. For our simulations, we employ a uniform 3D spatial grid char-acterized by (1024 × 128 × 128) grid points to resolve the considered quasi-1D geometry with spatial discretization 

δx = 0 .0825 lx, δy = 0 .07 lx, δz = 0 .15 lx.The time-evolution both in imaginary time, to iden-tify the ground-state of the dipolar gas, and in real time, for studying the ensuing nonequilibrium dynam-ics, is addressed through the split-step Crank–Nicolson method [113, 114] deploying a time-step for the numer-ical integration δt = 2 × 10 −4/ω x. These numerical parameters satisfy ( ωxδt )2 < δxδy/l 2 

> x

[114] which en-sures particle number and energy conservation in the course of the dynamics. Specifically, the normalization of the wave function at every step of the imaginary time propagation is maintained by applying ψ(r′, t ′) →

ψ(r′, t ′)/|| ψ(r′, t ′)|| . Numerical convergence of the order of 10 −4 and 10 −8 is attained for the ground-state wave function (at every grid point) and total energy respec-tively. Similarly, during the nonequilibrium dynamics (triggered by the moving Gaussian barrier) of the closed system the total particle number and total energy are preserved with accuracy 10 −6 for the entire real time-evolution. 12 

[1] F. B¨ ottcher, J.-N. Schmidt, J. Hertkorn, K. S. Ng, S. D. Graham, M. Guo, T. Langen, and T. Pfau, Rep. Progr. Phys. 84 , 012403 (2021). [2] L. Chomaz, I. Ferrier-Barbut, F. Ferlaino, B. Laburthe-Tolra, B. L. Lev, and T. Pfau, Rep. Prog. Phys. 86 ,026401 (2022). [3] K. Mukherjee, T. A. Cardinale, L. Chergui, P. St¨ urmer, and S. Reimann, The European Physical Journal Spe-cial Topics 232 , 3417 (2023). [4] N. Bigagli, W. Yuan, S. Zhang, B. Bulatovic, T. Kar-man, I. Stevenson, and S. Will, Nature 631 , 289 (2024). [5] A. Schindewolf, J. Hertkorn, I. Stevenson, M. Ciardi, P. Gross, D. Wang, T. Karman, G. Quemener, S. Will, T. Pohl, and T. Langen, arXiv:2512.14511 (2025). [6] A. Griesmaier, J. Werner, S. Hensler, J. Stuhler, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 , 160401 (2005). [7] M. Lu, N. Q. Burdick, S. H. Youn, and B. L. Lev, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107 , 190401 (2011). [8] K. Aikawa, A. Frisch, M. Mark, S. Baier, A. Rietzler, R. Grimm, and F. Ferlaino, Phys. Rev. Lett. 108 ,210401 (2012). [9] Y. Miyazawa, R. Inoue, H. Matsui, G. Nomura, and M. Kozuma, Phys. Rev. Lett. 129 , 223401 (2022). [10] M. Jona-Lasinio, K. Lakomy, and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 88 , 013619 (2013). [11] R. N. Bisset, D. Baillie, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 88 , 043606 (2013). [12] M. Jona-Lasinio, K. Lakomy, and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 88 , 013619 (2013). [13] D. Petter, G. Natale, R. van Bijnen, A. Patscheider, M. J. Mark, L. Chomaz, and F. Ferlaino, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 183401 (2019). [14] J.-N. Schmidt, J. Hertkorn, M. Guo, F. B¨ ottcher, M. Schmidt, K. S. H. Ng, S. D. Graham, T. Langen, M. Zwierlein, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 126 ,193002 (2021). [15] T. D. Lee, K. Huang, and C. N. Yang, Phys. Rev. 106 ,1135 (1957). [16] L. Tanzi, E. Lucioni, F. Fam` a, J. Catani, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, R. N. Bisset, L. Santos, and G. Mod-ugno, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 130405 (2019). [17] L. Chomaz, D. Petter, P. Ilzh¨ ofer, G. Natale, A. Traut-mann, C. Politi, G. Durastante, R. M. W. van Bijnen, A. Patscheider, M. Sohmen, M. J. Mark, and F. Fer-laino, Phys. Rev. X 9, 021012 (2019). [18] F. B¨ ottcher, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Wenzel, J. Hertkorn, M. Guo, T. Langen, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. X 9,011051 (2019). [19] J. Hertkorn, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Guo, F. B¨ ottcher, K. S. H. Ng, S. D. Graham, P. Uerlings, T. Langen, M. Zwierlein, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Res. 3, 033125 (2021). [20] E. Poli, T. Bland, C. Politi, L. Klaus, M. A. Norcia, F. Ferlaino, R. N. Bisset, and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 

104 , 063307 (2021). [21] Y.-C. Zhang, F. Maucher, and T. Pohl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

123 , 015301 (2019). [22] B. T. E. Ripley, D. Baillie, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 108 , 053321 (2023). [23] A. R. P. Lima and A. Pelster, Phys. Rev. A 84 , 041604 (2011). [24] F. W¨ achtler and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 94 , 043618 (2016). [25] H. P. B¨ uchler, E. Demler, M. Lukin, A. Micheli, N. Prokof’ev, G. Pupillo, and P. Zoller, Phys. Rev. Lett. 98 , 060404 (2007). [26] R. Bombin, J. Boronat, and F. Mazzanti, Phys. Rev. Lett. 119 , 250402 (2017). [27] I. L. Kurbakov, Y. E. Lozovik, G. E. Astrakharchik, and J. Boronat, Phys. Rev. B 82 , 014508 (2010). [28] A. K. Fedorov, I. L. Kurbakov, Y. E. Shchadilova, and Y. E. Lozovik, Phys. Rev. A 90 , 043616 (2014). [29] A. Macia, D. Hufnagl, F. Mazzanti, J. Boronat, and R. E. Zillich, Phys. Rev. Lett. 109 , 235307 (2012). [30] T. A. Cardinale, T. Bland, and S. M. Reimann, arXiv:2509.18051 (2025). [31] A. Recati and S. Stringari, Nat. Rev. Phys. 5, 735 (2023). [32] L. Tanzi, S. M. Roccuzzo, E. Lucioni, F. Fama, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, G. Modugno, A. Recati, and S. Stringari, Nature 574 , 382–385 (2019). [33] P. B. Blakie, L. Chomaz, D. Baillie, and F. Ferlaino, Phys. Rev. Res. 5, 033161 (2023). [34] G. A. Bougas, T. Bland, H. R. Sadeghpour, and S. I. Mistakidis, “Signatures of rigidity and second sound in dipolar supersolids,” (2025), arXiv:2506.22290 [cond-mat.quant-gas]. [35] R. Cook, A.-C. Lee, and P. B. Blakie, arXiv:2602.01617 (2026). [36] J. Hertkorn, P. St¨ urmer, K. Mukherjee, K. S. H. Ng, P. Uerlings, F. Hellstern, L. Lavoine, S. M. Reimann, T. Pfau, and R. Klemt, Phys. Rev. Res. 6, L042056 (2024). [37] N. Henkel, R. Nath, and T. Pohl, Phys. Rev. Lett. 104 ,195302 (2010). [38] F. Cinti, P. Jain, M. Boninsegni, A. Micheli, P. Zoller, and G. Pupillo, Phys. Rev. Lett. 105 , 135301 (2010). [39] J.-R. Li, J. Lee, W. Huang, S. Burchesky, B. Shteynas, F. C ¸ . Top, A. O. Jamison, and W. Ketterle, Nature 

543 , 91 (2017). [40] J. L´ eonard, A. Morales, P. Zupancic, T. Donner, and T. Esslinger, Science 358 , 1415 (2017). [41] J. L´ eonard, A. Morales, P. Zupancic, T. Esslinger, and T. Donner, Nature 543 , 87 (2017). [42] N. Liebster, M. Sparn, E. Kath, J. Duchene, H. Strobel, and M. K. Oberthaler, Nature Phys. 21 , 1064 (2025). [43] S. Ronen, D. C. E. Bortolotti, and J. L. Bohn, Phys. Rev. A 74 , 013623 (2006). [44] J. Hertkorn, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Guo, F. B¨ ottcher, K. S. H. Ng, S. D. Graham, P. Uerlings, H. P. B¨ uchler, T. Langen, M. Zwierlein, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

127 , 155301 (2021). [45] I. Ferrier-Barbut, M. Wenzel, F. B¨ ottcher, T. Langen, M. Isoard, S. Stringari, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

120 , 160402 (2018), publisher: American Physical So-ciety. [46] S. M. Roccuzzo, A. Recati, and S. Stringari, Phys. Rev. A 105 , 023316 (2022). [47] H. Zhen, Y. He, S. Saha, M. K. Parit, M. Huang, N. De-fenu, and G.-B. Jo, arXiv:2510.13730 (2025). [48] H. Li, E. Halperin, S. Ronen, and J. L. Bohn, Phys. Rev. A 109 , 013307 (2024). 13 

[49] M. ˇSindik, A. Recati, S. M. Roccuzzo, L. Santos, and S. Stringari, Phys. Rev. A 106 , L061303 (2022). [50] E. Casotti, E. Poli, L. Klaus, A. Litvinov, C. Ulm, C. Politi, M. J. Mark, T. Bland, and F. Ferlaino, Nature 

635 , 327 (2024). [51] S. Das and V. W. Scarola, Phys. Rev. Lett. 134 , 163401 (2025). [52] S. I. Mistakidis, K. Mukherjee, S. M. Reimann, and H. R. Sadeghpour, Phys. Rev. A 110 , 013323 (2024). [53] G. Biagioni, N. Antolini, B. Donelli, L. Pezz` e, A. Smerzi, M. Fattori, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, M. In-guscio, L. Tanzi, and G. Modugno, Nature 629 , 773 (2024). [54] P. Senarath Yapa and T. Bland, Phys. Rev. A 112 ,L021303 (2025). [55] L. M. Platt, D. Baillie, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 

110 , 023320 (2024). [56] E. Poli, D. Baillie, F. Ferlaino, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 110 , 053301 (2024). [57] M. Rakic, A. F. Ho, and D. K. Lee, Phys. Rev. Res. 6,043040 (2024). [58] L. Chomaz, R. M. W. van Bijnen, D. Petter, G. Faraoni, S. Baier, J. H. Becher, M. J. Mark, F. W¨ achtler, L. San-tos, and F. Ferlaino, Nature Phys. 14 , 442–446 (2018). [59] S. Halder, K. Mukherjee, S. I. Mistakidis, S. Das, P. G. Kevrekidis, P. K. Panigrahi, S. Majumder, and H. R. Sadeghpour, Phys. Rev. Res. 4, 043124 (2022). [60] J. S´ anchez-Baena, C. Politi, F. Maucher, F. Ferlaino, and T. Pohl, Nat. Commun. 14 , 1868 (2023). [61] D. Scheiermann, L. A. P. n. Ardila, T. Bland, R. N. Bis-set, and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 107 , L021302 (2023). [62] M. Lewkowicz, T. Karpiuk, M. Gajda, and M. Brewczyk, Phys. Rev. A 112 , 053320 (2025). [63] M. Lewkowicz, T. Karpiuk, M. Gajda, and M. Brewczyk, Phys. Rev. A 111 , L011301 (2025). [64] V. Hakim, Phys. Rev. E 55 , 2835 (1997). [65] V. A. Brazhnyi and A. M. Kamchatnov, Phys. Rev. A 

68 , 043614 (2003). [66] P. Engels and C. Atherton, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 , 160405 (2007). [67] G. C. Katsimiga, S. I. Mistakidis, G. M. Koutentakis, P. G. Kevrekidis, and P. Schmelcher, Phys. Rev. A 98 ,013632 (2018). [68] G. A. El, A. M. Kamchatnov, V. V. Khodorovskii, E. S. Annibale, and A. Gammal, Phys. Rev. E 80 , 046317 (2009). [69] A. M. Kamchatnov and N. Pavloff, Phys. Rev. A 85 ,033603 (2012). [70] M. A. Hoefer and B. Ilan, Phys. Rev. A 80 , 061601 (2009). [71] R. Onofrio, C. Raman, J. M. Vogels, J. R. Abo-Shaeer, A. P. Chikkatur, and W. Ketterle, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 ,2228 (2000). [72] R. Carretero-Gonz´ alez, P. G. Kevrekidis, D. J. Frantzeskakis, B. A. Malomed, S. Nandi, and A. R. Bishop, Mathematics and Computers in Simulation 74 ,361 (2007). [73] Y. Lim, Y. Lee, J. Goo, D. Bae, and Y.-i. Shin, New J. Phys. 24 , 083020 (2022). [74] J. Hertkorn, P. St¨ urmer, K. Mukherjee, K. S. H. Ng, P. Uerlings, F. Hellstern, L. Lavoine, S. M. Reimann, T. Pfau, and R. Klemt, Phys. Rev. Res. 6, L042056 (2024). [75] M. Guo, F. B¨ ottcher, J. Hertkorn, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Wenzel, H. P. B¨ uchler, T. Langen, and T. Pfau, Nature 574 , 386–389 (2019). [76] L. Tanzi, S. M. Roccuzzo, E. Lucioni, F. Fama, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, G. Modugno, A. Recati, and S. Stringari, Nature 574 , 382–385 (2019). [77] F. W¨ achtler and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 93 , 061603 (2016). [78] R. N. Bisset, R. M. Wilson, D. Baillie, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 94 , 033619 (2016). [79] L. Chomaz, S. Baier, D. Petter, M. J. Mark, F. W¨ achtler, L. Santos, and F. Ferlaino, Phys. Rev. X 6, 041039 (2016). [80] I. Ferrier-Barbut, H. Kadau, M. Schmitt, M. Wenzel, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 116 , 215301 (2016). [81] M. A. Baranov, M. Dalmonte, G. Pupillo, and P. Zoller, Chem. Rev. 112 , 5012 (2012), publisher: American Chemical Society. [82] S. Ronen, D. C. E. Bortolotti, D. Blume, and J. L. Bohn, Phys. Rev. A 74 , 033611 (2006). [83] D. C. E. Bortolotti, S. Ronen, J. L. Bohn, and D. Blume, Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 , 160402 (2006). [84] T. Maier, I. Ferrier-Barbut, H. Kadau, M. Schmitt, M. Wenzel, C. Wink, T. Pfau, K. Jachymski, and P. S. Julienne, Phys. Rev. A 92 , 060702 (2015). [85] C. Chin, R. Grimm, P. Julienne, and E. Tiesinga, Rev. Mod. Phys. 82 , 1225 (2010). [86] R. Sch¨ utzhold, M. Uhlmann, Y. Xu, and U. R. Fischer, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 20 , 3555 (2006). [87] F. Meinert, M. Knap, E. Kirilov, K. Jag-Lauber, M. B. Zvonarev, E. Demler, and H.-C. N¨ agerl, Science 356 ,945 (2017). [88] P. Engels and C. Atherton, Phys. Rev. Lett. 99 , 160405 (2007). [89] K. Mukherjee and S. M. Reimann, Phys. Rev. A 107 ,043319 (2023). [90] M. Sohmen, C. Politi, L. Klaus, L. Chomaz, M. J. Mark, M. A. Norcia, and F. Ferlaino, Phys. Rev. Lett. 126 ,233401 (2021). [91] D. Baillie, R. M. Wilson, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. Lett. 119 , 255302 (2017). [92] B. Donelli, N. Antolini, G. Biagioni, M. Fattori, A. Fioretti, C. Gabbanini, M. Inguscio, L. Tanzi, G. Modugno, A. Smerzi, and L. Pezz` e, Phys. Rev. A 

112 , L051302 (2025). [93] S. K. Adhikari, Laser Phys. Lett. 14 , 025501 (2016). [94] I. Ferrier-Barbut, M. Schmitt, M. Wenzel, H. Kadau, and T. Pfau, J. Phys. B: At., Mol. and Opt. Phys. 49 ,214004 (2016). [95] P. Ilzh¨ ofer, M. Sohmen, G. Durastante, C. Politi, A. Trautmann, G. Natale, G. Morpurgo, T. Giamarchi, L. Chomaz, M. J. Mark, and F. Ferlaino, Nature Phys. 

17 , 356–361 (2021). [96] G. A. Bougas, K. Mukherjee, and S. I. Mistakidis, Comm. Phys. 9, 54 (2026). [97] L. Pitaevskii and S. Stringari, Bose-Einstein conden-sation and superfluidity , Vol. 164 (Oxford University Press, 2016). [98] F. Dalfovo, S. Giorgini, L. P. Pitaevskii, and S. Stringari, Rev. Mod. Phys. 71 , 463 (1999). [99] W. Kirkby, H. Salman, T. Gasenzer, and L. Chomaz, Phys. Rev. Res. 7, 023248 (2025). [100] A. J. Leggett, Phys. Rev. Lett. 25 , 1543 (1970). [101] J. C. A. Matos, P. Giannakeas, M. Ciardi, T. Pohl, and J. M. Rost, Phys. Rev. Lett. 134 , 186001 (2025). 14 

[102] G. Chauveau, C. Maury, F. Rabec, C. Heintze, G. Brochier, S. Nascimbene, J. Dalibard, J. Beugnon, S. M. Roccuzzo, and S. Stringari, Phys. Rev. Lett. 130 ,226003 (2023), publisher: American Physical Society. [103] R. Bomb´ ın, V. Cikojevi´ c, F. Mazzanti, and J. Boronat, Phys. Rev. A 109 , 033312 (2024). [104] L. M. Platt, D. Baillie, and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 

111 , 053305 (2025). [105] S. Sabari, R. Kishor Kumar, and L. Tomio, Phys. Rev. A 109 , 023313 (2024). [106] T. Maier, H. Kadau, M. Schmitt, M. Wenzel, I. Ferrier-Barbut, T. Pfau, A. Frisch, S. Baier, K. Aikawa, L. Chomaz, M. J. Mark, F. Ferlaino, C. Makrides, E. Tiesinga, A. Petrov, and S. Kotochigova, Phys. Rev. X 5, 041029 (2015). [107] F. B¨ ottcher, M. Wenzel, J.-N. Schmidt, M. Guo, T. Lan-gen, I. Ferrier-Barbut, T. Pfau, R. Bomb´ ın, J. S´ anchez-Baena, J. Boronat, and F. Mazzanti, Phys. Rev. Res. 

1, 033088 (2019). [108] R. N. Bisset and P. B. Blakie, Phys. Rev. A 92 , 061603 (2015). [109] K.-T. Xi and H. Saito, Phys. Rev. A 93 , 011604 (2016). [110] I. Ferrier-Barbut, H. Kadau, M. Schmitt, M. Wenzel, and T. Pfau, Phys. Rev. Lett. 116 , 215301 (2016). [111] G. B. Arfken and H.-J. Weber, Mathematical methods for physicists (Academic Press Orlando, FL, 1972). [112] K. G´ oral and L. Santos, Phys. Rev. A 66 , 023613 (2002). [113] J. Crank and P. Nicolson, in Math. Proc. Camb. Philos. Soc. , Vol. 43 (Cambridge University Press, 1947) pp. 50–67. [114] X. Antoine, W. Bao, and C. Besse, Comput. Phys. Commun. 184 , 2621 (2013).