Title: Superconductivity in moir\'e transition metal dichalcogenide bilayers: comparison of two distinct theoretical approaches

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.04693v1

Published Time: Thu, 07 May 2026 00:45:12 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
## Superconductivity in moir´ e transition metal dichalcogenide bilayers: comparison of two distinct theoretical approaches 

Waseem Akbar and Michal Zegrodnik 

Academic Centre for Materials and Nanotechnology, AGH University of Krakow, al. A. Mickiewicza 30, 30-059 Krakow, Poland 

Received May 7, 2026 

Superconductivity has recently been observed in moir´ e transition-metal dichalcogenide bilayers. Here, we investigate the superconducting state in twisted WSe 2 using two complementary theoretical approaches. The first is based on the negative U -Hubbard model and represents a relatively con-ventional pairing scenario, in which strong electron–electron repulsion does not directly affect the paired state and an isotropic s-wave gap emerges. The second approach employs the t-J-U model, allowing for unconventional gap symmetries and incorporating strong correlation effects via substantial renormalization induced by Coulomb repulsion. We compare the key prop-erties of the superconducting states obtained within these two frameworks and discuss their implications in light of available experimental observa-tions. 

1. Introduction 

Moir´ e transition metal dichalcogenide (TMD) bilayers have emerged as a highly tunable platform for exploring correlated electron physics in two dimensions. When two monolayers are stacked with a small twist an-gle or lattice mismatch, long-wavelength moir´ e superlattices form, leading to flat electronic bands. These systems combine strong spin–orbit cou-pling, valley degrees of freedom, and reduced dielectric screening, giving rise to a rich variety of interaction-driven ground states including corre-lated insulators[1, 2, 3], topological phases[4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], generalized Wigner crystals[11, 12] and tunable excitonic complexes[13, 14, 15]. More-over, recent experiments on twisted bilayer WSe 2 and MoTe 2 have revealed the appearance of the superconducting phase (SC)[16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21]. It should be noted that TMD moir´ e bilayers are characterized by significant advantages in comparison to the canonical strongly correlated electron sys-tems such as cuprates, in which superconductivity was also identified many years ago[22, 23]. Namely, by varying the twist angle between the layers, one 

(1)   

> arXiv:2605.04693v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 6 May 2026 2main printed on May 7, 2026

directly controls the bandwidth and thus the strength of electronic corre-lations, enabling continuous tuning from weak- to strong-coupling regimes. Independent electrostatic control of the band filling through gate voltages further allows superconductivity to be probed across distinct carrier-density regimes. In addition, the strong spin–orbit coupling intrinsic to WSe 2 can be modified via an applied displacement field, altering the spin–valley lock-ing and possibly modifying the available pairing channels. Together, these tuning knobs make twisted bilayer WSe 2 a uniquely flexible platform for in-vestigating unconventional superconductivity in two dimensions, where both the interaction scale and internal electronic structure can be engineered in an in situ manner. According to the experimental data gathered so far, the superconduc-tivity in twisted WSe 2 appears close to the correlated insulator, which lies at half-filling. The paired state shows dome-like behavior as a function of electronic concentration with the maximal critical temperature below 1 K. For small twist angles ( ∼ 2◦) the SC state stability appears close to zero displacement fields, while for relatively larger angles ( ∼ 5◦) some non-zero displacement field is necessary to induce the pairing[19, 21]. Also, depend-ing on the twist angle and the value of displacement field, both one and two superconducting domes can be observed with changing band filling. So far the pairing mechanism and the complete theoretical description of the fundamental features of the superconducting phase in tWSe 2 has not been established. Most of the theoretical analysis emphasize the Coulomb-interaction driven pairing both within strong and weak-to moderate interac-tion regime which leads to an anisotropic gap in k-space and singlet-triplet mixing[24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33]. However, pure spin-singlet channel has also been considered[34, 35] and a more standard phonon medi-ated pairing still remains a possibility and has been discussed in Ref. [36]. The main aim of this paper is to confront two distinct approaches to the description of superconductivity as applied to the study of tWSe 2 and to discuss them in the context of available experimental data. Within the first scenario, we apply the so-called negative-U Hubbard model which was originally proposed by Robaszkiewicz et al. and analyzed in the context of superconducting state and charge ordering[37, 38]. Here we combined it with an effective description of a single moi´ e band of tWSe 2 with the Ising-type spin orbit coupling taken into account by the spin dependent complex hoppings. This constitutes a relatively conventional approach and leads in a straightforward manner to an isotropic s-wave type of pairing. Such description can be considered as compatible with momentum independent pairing potential similar to the one considered in the standard BCS theory but without limiting the pairing to a narrow range of energies around the Fermi level. main printed on May 7, 2026 3

In the second case, we revisit our recent considerations in which we employ the t-J-U model that refers to electron pairing induced by kinetic exchange leading to an unconventional form of the superconducting gap realizing a mixed d + id /p − ip symmetry, which is due to the presence of Ising type spin-orbit coupling in tWSe 2[39, 33]. It should be noted that the t-J-U model has been extensively applied to superconducting cuprates already some time ago[40, 23] and it can be considered as evolving from the canonical Hubbard[41, 42] and t-J[43, 44] model based theories within the paradigm of strong electronic correlations. Here, we use the Gutzwiller approximation method in order to analyze the influence of the correlation induced renormalization effects and their influence of the resulting physical picture. 

2. Model and Method 

To describe the single moir´ e band of twisted WSe 2 with Ising type spin orbit coupling in an effective manner, we consider the following single-particle Hamiltonian ˆH0 = t X

> ⟨ij ⟩σ

eiσν ij ϕ ˆc† 

> iσ

ˆcjσ , (1) where ˆ c† 

> iσ

and ˆ ciσ are the creation and annihilation operators for the electron with spin σ at the site i while ⟨i, j ⟩ corresponds to the nearest neighbor lattice sites at the triangular lattice. As one can see, the hoppings are both spin- and direction-dependent with σ = 1 ( σ = −1) corresponding to spin up (spin down) and νij = ±1 depending on the hopping direction [cf. Fig. 1 (a)]. It should be noted that within such an effective single band picture, the hopping amplitude t and the phase factor ϕ depend on the displacement field (D) as shown in Refs. [16, 45]. Here we take the values provided in [16]. By changing the displacement field, one can enhance the strength of the Ising type spin orbit coupling and influence the profile of the density of states in the system. In Fig. 1 (b) we show the resulting evolution of the Van Hove singularity in the ( n, D)-plane, where n = P

> σ

⟨ˆniσ ⟩. The presented curve divides the diagram into two regimes with closed (left-bottom) and opened (right-upper) spin-split Fermi surfaces. For the sake of clarity in Fig. 1 (c) and (d) we provide the density of states at the Fermi level as a function of band filling for two selected displacement fields, where the shift of the Van Hove singularity from higher to lower band fillings is visualized with increasing D.In this study, the single particle part provided above is supplemented with an interaction part in order to analyze the fundamental features of the 4 main printed on May 7, 2026 

Fig. 1. (a) The values of the direction dependent factor νij = ±1 corresponding to the nearest neighbor hoppings on a triangular lattice which determines the sign of the complex phase appearing in Eq. (1). (b) The evolution of the Van Hove singu-larity in the ( n, D)-plane. Note that the resulting curve divides the diagram into two regimes with closed (left-bottom) and opened (right-upper) spin-split Fermi surfaces. (c) and (d) Density of states at the Fermi level as a function of band filling for two selected values of the displacement field, D.

superconducting state. Therefore the resulting Hamiltonian has the general form ˆH = ˆH0 + ˆHI , (2) where ˆHI constitutes the interaction part. In the following, we describe the two theoretical approaches which differ by the form of the interaction term and correspond to the negative U -Hubbard model in connection with the Hartree-Fock method as well as the t-J-U model with the application of the Gutzwiller approximation method. 

2.1. Negative U-Hubbard model 

First we consider the interaction part of our model in the form of the negative U -Hubbard term ˆHI = U X

> i

ˆni↑ ˆni↓, (3) where ˆ niσ = ˆ c† 

> iσ

ˆciσ and U < 0 leading to an attractive onsite interaction which results in superconducting pairing in a straightforward manner as shown below. After the application of the Hartree-Fock approximation with the inclusion of the anomalous expectation values, the interaction term takes the form ˆHI = X

> i

  ˜∆∗ˆci↑ˆci↓ + ˜∆ˆ c†

> i↓

ˆc†

> i↑

 + U n

2

X

> iσ

ˆniσ − NU | ˜∆|2 − N U n2

4 , (4) main printed on May 7, 2026 5

where N is the number of lattice sites and we have introduced the onsite pairing amplitude ˜∆i = U ⟨ˆci↓ˆci↑⟩. Also, since we consider a homogeneous, non-magnetic state, we take ˜∆i ≡ ˜∆ and ⟨ˆniσ ⟩ ≡ n/ 2. For the sake of con-venience, we additionally determine the pure anomalous expectation value ∆ = ˜∆/U , which is going to be useful further on when comparing the re-sults coming from the two considered here approaches. Moreover, the second summation in the above equation can be dropped since it only shifts the energy scale of the considered band and therefore in the considered single band case it does not have any influence on the physics of the model. After the transformation to reciprocal space we can write the full Hamil-tonian in a compact form ˆH = 12

X

> kσ



ˆc† 

> kσ

ˆc−k¯σ

  ϵkσ − μ σ ˜∆

σ ˜∆∗ −ϵ−k¯σ + μ

  ˆckσ

ˆc†−k¯σ



+ X

> kσ

(ϵkσ − μ) − NU | ˜∆|2 − N U n2

4 ,

(5) where ¯ σ = −σ and we have supplemented the model with the chemical po-tential contribution ( −μ P 

> i

ˆniσ ). As one can see, onsite pairing amplitudes ˜∆ correspond to coupling between the electron- and hole-like dispersion re-lations which leads to gap opening in the resulting band structure. The standard Bogolubov-de Gennes approach can be applied to the Hamilto-nian given by Eq. (5) in order to derive the self consistent equations for the superconducting gap and chemical potential, which than can be solved numerically. 

2.2. The t-J-U model 

As the second scenario considered here we revisit the t-J-U model as applied to the single band effective description of the twisted WSe 2[25, 33]. In this case the interaction part of the model is taken in the form ˆHI =J X′⟨ij ⟩



ˆSzi ˆSzj + cos (2 νij ϕ) X

> α=x,y

ˆSαi ˆSαj

+ sin (2 νij ϕ)( ˆSi × ˆSj ) · ˆz



+ U X

> i

ˆni↑ ˆni↓,

(6) where ˆSi is the spin- 12 operator while J > 0 and U > 0 correspond to intersite kinetic exchange and onsite Coulomb repulsion, respectively. The presented form of the kinetic exchange term can be obtained when deriving the t-J model form the Hubbard model description of a single moir´ e band 6 main printed on May 7, 2026 

of tWSe 2. The considered t-J-U Hamiltonian can be viewed as an effective framework appropriate for regimes where U is large but finite, and double occupancies remains small yet nonvanishing. Under these conditions, the Hubbard U term must be retained in the Hamiltonian, while the kinetic spin–spin exchange interaction already starts to develop. The t-J-U model is therefore used to explicitly capture both contributions. It should be noted that, here the kinetic exchange term differs from the one obtained originally by Spalek et al[43] due to the appearance of the additional Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya-type of term. Such a form is a straightforward result of the Ising type spin orbit coupling which is characteristic to tWSe 2 and is taken into account via spin and direction dependent complex hoppings. In order to take into account the electron-electron correlations within such approach we consider the Gutzwiller variational wave function in the following form 

|ΨG⟩ = Y

> i

X

> Γ

λi, Γ|Γ⟩i i ⟨Γ|Ψ0⟩, (7) where |Ψ0⟩ is the uncorrelated (mean-field) state and i runs over all the lattice sites, |Γ⟩ corresponds to the local basis |Γ⟩ ∈ {|∅⟩ , | ↑⟩ , | ↓⟩ , | ↑↓ ⟩} , and λi, Γ are the variational parameters. Similarly as in the previous subsection, also here we consider a homogeneous, non-magnetic state, thus 

λi, Γ ≡ λΓ and λσ ≡ λs. As shown by B¨ unemann et al., one can impose an additional condition to the correlation operator, in order to reduce the complexity of the numerical calculations [46]. Within the infinite dimensions approximation (Gutzwiller approximation), the expectation value of our Hamiltonian in the |ΨG⟩ state takes the form 

⟨ ˆH⟩G = X

> ij

q2tijσ ⟨ˆc† 

> iσ

ˆcjσ ⟩0 + λ4 

> s

J X′⟨ij ⟩

 12

X

> σ

eiσ 2ϕij ⟨ˆc† 

> iσ

ˆci¯σ ˆc†  

> j¯σ

ˆcjσ ⟩0

+ 14

X

> σσ ′

σσ ′⟨ˆnHF iσ ˆnHF jσ ′ ⟩0



+ λ2

> ↑↓

U X

> i

⟨ˆni↑ ˆni↓⟩0,

(8) where q = λs

 λ↑↓ n/ 2 + λ∅(1 − n/ 2)  and ⟨ˆo⟩0 stands for the expectation value of the ˆ o operator in the state |ψ0⟩. Using the standard Wick’s theorem, all four-operator expectation values appearing on the right-hand side of the above equation can be decomposed. As a result, ⟨ ˆH⟩G can be written as a function of n, the electron hopping [ Pijσ = ⟨ˆc† 

> iσ

ˆcjσ ⟩0] and Cooper pairing mean-field parameters [ Sσσ ′ 

> ij

= ⟨ˆciσ ˆcjσ ′ ⟩0]. In order to determine the values of those mean fields we apply the Effective Hamiltonian Scheme[47]. Within such approach the minimization condition of the ground state energy, ⟨ ˆH⟩G,leads to an effective Hamiltonian which can be treated within the Bogilubov-de Gennes formalism as shown in some more detail in Refs. [25, 33]. main printed on May 7, 2026 7

It should be noted that the anomalous expectation values in the cor-related state can be extracted from the non-correlated counterparts with the use of the following relation: ∆σσ ′ 

> ij

= ⟨ˆciσ ˆcjσ ′ ⟩G = q2⟨ˆciσ ˆcjσ ′ ⟩0. After determining the correlated pairing amplitudes to all nearest neighbors one can extract the so-called symmetry resolved gap amplitudes correspond-ing to different pairing symmetries, which are going to be analyzed in the following Section. 

3. Results 

At first we analyze the results obtained from the negative U -Hubbard model as applied to the tWSe 2. As mentioned in the introduction from the experimental perspective the considered twisted bilayer structure is placed in between two electrodes which allows to change the band filling ( n) as well as the bias voltage across the bilayer ( D) in an in situ manner. In order to relate our theoretical results with the available experimental data we have calculated the amplitude of the superconducting gap as a function of both n and D which we show in Fig. 2 for three selected values of U .For relatively large negative U the isotropic s-wave SC state appears to be stable in a significant area of the phase diagram. Since U plays the role of the pairing strength, while decreasing it, the superconductivity is becoming less and less robust. In particular, for U = −6 meV the SC state survives only in close proximity of the Van Hove singularity line which is marked in blue. For such a case, the high values of density of states generated by the Van Hove singularity are necessary to stabilize superconductivity. For completeness, in Fig. 2 (d) and (e) we show the SC gap as a function of 

n and D separately along the cuts represented by the red arrows in Fig. 2 (c). Note, that the visible dome-like behavior of the gap amplitude ∆ with increasing n and D is in qualitative agreement with the experimental data[18, 17]. This is due to a trivial effect related with the enhancement of the SC pairing by large values of the density of states, which correspond to n ≈ 1 and D ≈ 0.35 V/nm. Nevertheless, the calculated phase diagram in Fig. 2 does not reproduce the one observed in experiments. Since in the latter case the appearance of the paired state is reported only close to half-filling, while in the former, superconductivity stays stable around the Van Hove singularity line even away from the n = 1 situation. Next, we analyze the results obtained within the t-J-U model in connec-tion with the Gutzwiller approximation method. The first difference with respect to the previous considerations stems from the fact that here the pairing mechanism has an intersite character, meaning that the resulting SC gap is k-dependent and can realize various symmetries. In the case con-sidered, the stable paired state corresponds to a mixed d + id (singlet) and 8 main printed on May 7, 2026          

> Fig. 2. Superconducting gap amplitude as a function of displacement field ( D)and band filling nresulting from the nagative U-Hubbard model for three selected values of the Uparameter. The blue solid line marks the evolution of the Van Hove singularity across the phase diagram. In (d) and (e) we show the superconducting gap amplitude as a function of band filling and displacement field, respectively, for two selected values of Ualong the cuts represented by red arrows in (c).

p − ip (triplet) channel and is topologically non-trivial with Chern num-ber C = ±2, ±4, depending on the particular set of model parameters[25]. In Fig. 3 (a) and (b) we show the calculated singlet and triplet gap am-plitudes as a function of band filling for the case of moderate and strong correlations, respectively. As one can see in the former case, also a single SC dome appears similarly as for the negative U -Hubbard model, while in the latter a two-dome structure appears with the SC state being suppressed at half-filling due to the presence of the insulating state. An important dif-ference between this framework and the previous one is that here the strong onsite Coulomb repulsion generates renormalization of subsequent terms of the Hamiltonian [cf. Eq. (8)]. The values of all the renormalization pa-rameters are provided in Figs. 3 (d-f). As can be seen, renormalization is the strongest near half-filling and increases with increasing Coulomb re-pulsion U . It should be noted that the parameter λ4 

> s

> 1 renormalizes the kintic exchange term that is responsible for pairing, meaning that the correlations work in favor of the SC state stabilization. Nevertheless, for 

U/W > 1 the SC gap is largely suppressed at half filling due to q2 ≈ 0(since ∆ σσ ′ 

> ij

= q2⟨ˆciσ ˆcjσ ′ ⟩). Therefore, the optimal situation for stabiliza-main printed on May 7, 2026 9

tion of the SC state is close to half-filling but in the moderately correlated regime where U/W ≲ 1. For comparison we have carried out calculations with the use of the Hartree-Fock method for U/W = 1 by setting all the renormalization parameters to 1, which leads to the resulting SC gap to be few orders of magnitude smaller than the one shown in Fig. 3(a). It should be noted that the effect of Van Hove singularity discussed earlier is going to be operative also here. However, in the moderately correlated regime the half-filled case should create favorable conditions for the appearance of the superconducting state possibly making it especially stable in the close proximity of the n = 1 case. This is in contrast with the result presented in Fig. 2 where the value of the SC gap remained unchanged also away from the half-filling provided that D is adjusted to make the Van Hove singularity stay at the Fermi level. As we have shown very recently, after supplement-ing the considered t-J-U model with a nearest neighbor Coulomb repulsion term, which additionally suppresses the pairing in a large area of the phase diagram[33], the SC state survives only at the crossing of the Van Hove sin-gularity with the half-filling, where the two effects (renormalization and Van Hove singularity) can work simultaneously in favor of the pairing leading to a phase diagram that agrees qualitatively with the experimental data.       

> Fig. 3. The gap amplitudes for the obtained mixed singlet-triplet paired state as a function of band filling (a,b) and onsite Coulomb repulsion (c) for one selected value of displacement field D= 0 .35 V/nm. Note that W≈90 meV corresponds to the bare band width. In (d-f) we show the corresponding renormalization factors obtained within the Gutzwiller approximation [Eq. (8)].

4. Conclusions 

We have compared two distinct approaches to the description of the superconducting phase in a single moir´ e band of twisted WSe 2. In both 10 main printed on May 7, 2026 

cases, high values of the density of states stabilize superconductivity which creates a tendency for the SC state stability regime to follow the Van Hove singularity line at the ( n,D)-phase diagram. For the case of negative U -Hubbard model the paired state realizes a trivial s-wave symmetry of the gap and it can become stable even away from the half-filled case provided the displacement field is adjusted so as the high density of states-condition is fulfilled. Such behavior is in contrast with the experimental picture, where the SC state appears as stable only close to the half-filled scenario. For the case of the t-J-U model calculated with the use of the Gutzwiller approximation method, the pairing appears due to intersite kinetic exchange leading to an exotic d + id/p − ip mixed symmetry state. Moreover, the renormalization effects resulting from a significant onsite Coulomb repul-sion can work in favor of the paired state close to half-filling in the mod-erately correlated state when U ≲ W , for which the Mott insulator is still not well developed. This effect can cause the superconducting pairing to be specifically stable close to half-filling. As shown in more detail in Ref. [33], after the inclusion of the intersite Coulomb repulsion, which suppresses the stability of the superconducting state in a large area of the phase di-agram, one obtains a situation in which the SC state survives only at the crossing between the Van Hove singularity line and half-filling at the ( n,D)phase diagram. In such a case, the effects of Van Hove singularity as well as correlation induced renormalization can work simultaneously stabilizing the paired phase only in a small area of the phase diagram in qualitative agreement with the experimental observations. 

5. Acknowledgment 

This work is dedicated to Professor J´ ozef Spalek in recognition of his outstanding contributions to the field of correlated electron systems, as well as his exceptional mentorship. I sincerely thank him for his guidance, sup-port, and the many lessons that have influenced my scientific career (MZ). This research was supported by the National Science Center, Poland (NCN) according to decision 2021/42/E/ST3/00128. REFERENCES    

> [1] Yanhao Tang, Lizhong Li, Tingxin Li, Yang Xu, Song Liu, Katayun Bar-mak, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Allan H Macdonald, Jie Shan, and Kin Fai Mak. Simulation of Hubbard model physics in WS e2/WS 2moir´ esuperlattices. Nature , 579:353 – 358, 2020.

main printed on May 7, 2026 11 [2] Zhongdong Han, Yiyu Xia, Zhengchao Xia, Wenjin Zhao, Yichi Zhang, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Jie Shan, and Kin Fai Mak. Evidence of topo-logical Kondo insulating state in MoT e2/WS e2 moir´ e bilayers, 2025. [3] Wenjin Zhao, Bowen Shen, Zui Tao, Zhongdong Han, Kaifei Kang, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Kin Mak, Fai, and Jie Shan. Gate-tunable heavy fermions in a moir´ e kondo lattice. Nature , 616:61–65, 2023. [4] Benjamin A. Foutty, Carlos R. Kometter, Trithep Devakul, Aidan P. Reddy, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Liang Fu, and Benjamin E. Feld-man. Mapping twist-tuned multiband topology in bilayer WS e2. Science ,384(6693):343–347, 2024. [5] Fan Xu, Zheng Sun, Tongtong Jia, Chang Liu, Cheng Xu, Chushan Li, Yu Gu, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Bingbing Tong, Jinfeng Jia, Zhiwen Shi, Shengwei Jiang, Yang Zhang, Xiaoxue Liu, and Tingxin Li. Observation of in-teger and fractional quantum anomalous hall effects in twisted bilayer MoT e2.

Phys. Rev. X , 13:031037, Sep 2023. [6] Fan Zhang, Nicol´ as Morales-Dur´ an, Yanxing Li, Wang Yao, Jung-Jung Su, Yu-Chuan Lin, Chengye Dong, Xiaohui Liu, Fu-Xiang Rikudo Chen, Hyunsue Kim, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Xiaoqin Li, Joshua A. Robinson, Allan H. Macdonald, and Chih-Kang Shih. Experimental signature of layer skyrmions and implications for band topology in twisted WS e2 bilayers, 2025. [7] Tingxin Li, Shengwei Jiang, Bowen Shen, Yang Zhang, Lizhong Li, Zui Tao, Trithep Devakul, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Liang Fu, Jie Shan, and Kin Fai Mak. Quantum anomalous hall effect from intertwined moir´ e bands. 

Nature , 600(7890):641–646, December 2021. [8] Wenjin Zhao, Kaifei Kang, Lizhong Li, Charles Tschirhart, Evgeny Redekop, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Andrea Young, Jie Shan, and Kin Fai Mak. Realization of the Haldane Chern insulator in a moir´ e lattice, 2022. [9] Palash Saha, Louk Rademaker, and Michal Zegrodnik. Interplay between topology and electron-electron interactions in the moir´ e MoT e2/WS e2 heter-obilayer. Phys. Rev. B , 112:045147, Jul 2025. [10] Palash Saha and Michal Zegrodnik. Emergent quantum valley hall insulator from electron interactions in transition-metal dichalcogenide heterobilayers, 2025. [11] Hongyuan Li, Ziyu Xiang, Aidan P. Reddy, Trithep Devakul, Renee Sailus, Rounak Banerjee, Takashi Taniguchi, Kenji Watanabe, Sefaattin Tongay, Alex Zettl, Liang Fu, Michael F. Crommie, and Feng Wang. Wigner Molecular Crystals from Multi-electron Moir´ e Artificial Atoms, 2023. [12] Emma C. Regan, Danqing Wang, Chenhao Jin, M. Iqbal Bakti Utama, Beini Gao, Xin Wei, Sihan Zhao, Wenyu Zhao, Zuocheng Zhang, Kentaro Yumigeta, Mark Blei, Johan D. Carlstr¨ om, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Se-faattin Tongay, Michael Crommie, Alex Zettl, and Feng Wang. Mott and generalized wigner crystal states in WS e2/WS 2 moir´ e superlattices. Nature ,579(7799):359–363, March 2020. [13] Medha Dandu, Garima Gupta, Pushkar Dasika, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, and Kausik Majumdar. Electrically tunable localized versus delo-12 main printed on May 7, 2026 

calized intralayer moir´ e excitons and trions in a twisted mos2 bilayer. ACS Nano , 16(6):8983–8992, 2022. PMID: 35679485. [14] Haihong Zheng, Biao Wu, Shaofei Li, Junnan Ding, Jun He, Zongwen Liu, Chang-Tian Wang, Jian-Tao Wang, Anlian Pan, and Yanping Liu. Localization-enhanced moir´ e exciton in twisted transition metal dichalco-genide heterotrilayer superlattices. Light: Science & Applications , 12(1):117, May 2023. [15] Mingfeng Chen, Runtong Li, Haonan Wang, Yuliang Yang, Yiyang Lai, Chaowei Hu, Takashi Taniguchi, Kenji Watanabe, Jiaqiang Yan, Jiun-Haw Chu, Erik Henriksen, Chuanwei Zhang, Li Yang, and Xi Wang. Bichromatic moir´ e superlattices for tunable quadrupolar trions and correlated states, 2025. [16] Lei Wang, En-Min Shih, Augusto Ghiotto, Lede Xian, Daniel A. Rhodes, Chengand Tan, Martin Claassen, Dante M. Kennes, Yusong Bai, Bumho Kim, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Xiaoyang Zhu, James Hone, Angel Rubio, and Cory R. Pasupathy, Abhay N. amd Dean. Correlated electronic phases in twisted bilayer transition metal dichalcogenides. Nature Materials , 19:861, 2020. [17] Yiyu Xia, Zhongdong Han, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Jie Shan, and Kin Fai Mak. Superconductivity in twisted bilayer wse2. Nature ,637(8047):833–838, Jan 2025. [18] Yinjie Guo, Jordan Pack, Joshua Swann, Luke Holtzman, Matthew Cothrine, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, David G. Mandrus, Katayun Barmak, James Hone, Andrew J. Millis, Abhay Pasupathy, and Cory R. Dean. Su-perconductivity in 5.0 ° twisted bilayer wse2. Nature , 637(8047):839–845, Jan 2025. [19] Yiyu Xia, Zhongdong Han, Jiacheng Zhu, Yichi Zhang, Patrick Kn¨ uppel, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Kin Fai Mak, and Jie Shan. Simulating high-temperature superconductivity in moir´ e wse2, 2025. [20] Yinjie Guo, John Cenker, Ammon Fischer, Daniel Mu˜ noz-Segovia, Jordan Pack, Luke Holtzman, Lennart Klebl, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Katayun Barmak, James Hone, Angel Rubio, Dante M. Kennes, Andrew J. Millis, Abhay Pasupathy, and Cory R. Dean. Angle evolution of the super-conducting phase diagram in twisted bilayer wse2, 2025. [21] Fan Xu, Zheng Sun, Jiayi Li, Ce Zheng, Cheng Xu, Jingjing Gao, Tongtong Jia, Kenji Watanabe, Takashi Taniguchi, Bingbing Tong, Li Lu, Jinfeng Jia, Zhiwen Shi, Shengwei Jiang, Yuanbo Zhang, Yang Zhang, Shiming Lei, Xi-aoxue Liu, and Tingxin Li. Signatures of unconventional superconductivity near reentrant and fractional quantum anomalous hall insulators, 2025. [22] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. M¨ uller. Possible high Tc superconductivity in the Ba–La–Cu–O system. Zeitschrift f¨ ur Physik B: Condensed Matter , 64:189–193, 1986. [23] J. Spalek, M. Fidrysiak, M. Zegrodnik, and A. Biborski. Superconductivity in high-tc and related strongly correlated systems from variational perspective: Beyond mean field theory. Physics Reports , 959:1–117, 2022. main printed on May 7, 2026 13 [24] M. Zegrodnik and A. Biborski. Mixed singlet-triplet superconducting state within the moir´ e t−j−u model applied to twisted bilayer wse 2. Phys. Rev. B ,108:064506, Aug 2023. [25] Waseem Akbar, Andrzej Biborski, Louk Rademaker, and Michal Zegrodnik. Topological superconductivity with mixed singlet-triplet pairing in moir´ e tran-sition metal dichalcogenide bilayers. Phys. Rev. B , 110:064516, Aug 2024. [26] Daniele Guerci, Daniel Kaplan, Julian Ingham, J. H. Pixley, and Andrew J. Millis. Topological superconductivity from repulsive interactions in twisted wse 2, 2024. [27] Chuyi Tuo, Ming-Rui Li, Zhengzhi Wu, Wen Sun, and Hong Yao. Theory of topological superconductivity and antiferromagnetic correlated insulators in twisted bilayer wse 2, 2024. [28] Lennart Klebl, Ammon Fischer, Laura Classen, Michael M. Scherer, and Dante M. Kennes. Competition of density waves and superconductivity in twisted tungsten diselenide. Phys. Rev. Res. , 5:L012034, Mar 2023. [29] Ammon Fischer, Lennart Klebl, Valentin Cr´ epel, Siheon Ryee, Angel Ru-bio, Lede Xian, Tim O. Wehling, Antoine Georges, Dante M. Kennes, and Andrew J. Millis. Theory of intervalley-coherent afm order and topological superconductivity in twse 2. Phys. Rev. X , 15:041055, Dec 2025. [30] Wei Qin, Wen-Xuan Qiu, and Fengcheng Wu. Topological chiral superconduc-tivity mediated by intervalley antiferromagnetic fluctuations in twisted bilayer wse 2. Phys. Rev. Lett. , 135:246002, Dec 2025. [31] Valentin Cr´ epel, Daniele Guerci, Jennifer Cano, J. H. Pixley, and Andrew Mil-lis. Topological superconductivity in doped magnetic moir´ e semiconductors. 

Phys. Rev. Lett. , 131:056001, Aug 2023. [32] Feng Chen and Donna Sheng. Singlet, triplet and pair density wave supercon-ductivity in the doped triangular-lattice moir´ e system, 2023. [33] Michal Zegrodnik, Waseem Akbar, Andrzej Biborski, and Louk Rademaker. Optimal superconductivity in twisted bilayer wse 2 where the van hove singu-larity crosses half-filling, 2025. [34] Sunghoon Kim, Juan Felipe Mendez-Valderrama, Xuepeng Wang, and Deban-jan Chowdhury. Theory of correlated insulators and superconductor at ν = 1 in twisted wse 2, 2025. [35] Mathieu B´ elanger, J´ erˆ ome Fournier, and David S´ en´ echal. Superconductivity in the twisted bilayer transition metal dichalcogenide wse 2: A quantum cluster study. Phys. Rev. B , 106:235135, Dec 2022. [36] Jihang Zhu, Yang-Zhi Chou, Ming Xie, and Sankar Das Sarma. Superconduc-tivity in twisted transition metal dichalcogenide homobilayers. Phys. Rev. B ,111:L060501, Feb 2025. [37] S. Robaszkiewicz, R. Micnas, and K. A. Chao. Hartree theory for the negative-

u extended hubbard model: Ground state. Phys. Rev. B , 24:4018–4024, Oct 1981. [38] R. Micnas, J. Ranninger, and S. Robaszkiewicz. Superconductivity in narrow-band systems with local nonretarded attractive interactions. Rev. Mod. Phys. ,62:113–171, Jan 1990. 14 main printed on May 7, 2026 

[39] J´ ozef Spalek, Michal Zegrodnik, and Jan Kaczmarczyk. Universal properties of high-temperature superconductors from real-space pairing: t − j − u model and its quantitative comparison with experiment. Phys. Rev. B , 95:024506, Jan 2017. [40] J´ ozef Spalek, Michal Zegrodnik, and Jan Kaczmarczyk. Universal properties of high-temperature superconductors from real-space pairing: t − j − u model and its quantitative comparison with experiment. Phys. Rev. B , 95:024506, Jan 2017. [41] J. Hubbard. Electron correlations in narrow energy bands. Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. A. Mathematical and Physical Sciences ,276(1365):238–257, 11 1963. [42] N. Bulut. d x 2 - y 2 superconductivity and the hubbard model. Advances in Physics , 51(7):1587–1667, 2002. [43] K A Chao, J Spalek, and A M Oles. Kinetic exchange interaction in a narrow s-band. Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics , 10(10):L271, may 1977. [44] Masao Ogata and Hiroshi Fukuyama. The t-j model for the oxide high-tc superconductors. Reports on Progress in Physics , 71(3):036501, March 2008. [45] Haining Pan, Fengcheng Wu, and Sankar Das Sarma. Band topology, hubbard model, heisenberg model, and dzyaloshinskii-moriya interaction in twisted bi-layer wse 2. Phys. Rev. Res. , 2:033087, Jul 2020. [46] J¨ org B¨ unemann, Tobias Schickling, and Florian Gebhard. Variational study of fermi surface deformations in hubbard models. Europhysics Letters ,98(2):27006, apr 2012. [47] J. Kaczmarczyk. Comparison of two approaches for the treatment of gutzwiller variational wave functions. Philosophical Magazine , 95(5-6):563–573, 2015.