Title: Quantum Landscape of Superconducting Diodes

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.14623v1

Published Time: Fri, 17 Apr 2026 00:36:17 GMT

Number of Pages: 37

Markdown Content:
# Quantum Landscape of Superconducting Diodes 

Muhammad Nadeem ∗ and Xiaolin Wang †

Institute for Superconducting and Electronic Materials (ISEM), Australian Institute for Innovative Materials (AIIM), University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New South Wales 2525, Australia. 

This study maps the quantum landscape of superconducting diodes (SDs) [1] onto the quantum technology architecture, which is currently constrained by fundamental challenges in control and scalability. In the existing non-integrated quantum technology hardware, control and scalability related issues emerge at two fronts: First, nonlinear and nonreciprocal circuit elements, which are essential building blocks for quantum processors, are often complex, bulky, and dissipative. Second, the temperature gradient between classical control electronics ( TC ≳ K), which is also dissipative, and the quantum processor at cryogenic temperatures ( TQ ∼ mK) makes scalability even more challenging. The main focus is to reveal how the built-in nonlinearity, nonreciprocity, and quantum functionalities of SDs are significant for on-chip integrated circuit quantum electrodynamics (c-QED), enabling scalable integration of noise-resilient qubit and qubit-interfaces for efficient power delivery, coherent control and memory, high-fidelity readout, and quantum-limited amplification. To this end, this study will also shed light on how thermodynamic constraints and field effects can be harnessed within a quantum-enhanced SD platform, thereby enabling thermal compatibility between classical and quantum workflows, isothermal all-electrical control, and on-chip scalability. This perspective is expected to play a pivotal role in the advancement of superconducting circuit-based quantum hardware with temperature-matched classical, quantum, and hybrid workflows. 

CONTENTS 

I. Introduction 1II. Prologue: Semiconductors to superconductors 2III. Significance: Superconducting nonreciprocity 4A. Quantum control 5B. Temperature control 7C. All-electrical control 8D. Isothermal hybrid workflow 8IV. Superconducting diode-integrated c-QED 9A. Qubit: anharmonicity and entanglement 10 1. Anharmonicity and qubit transfer 10 2. Qubit-Qubit coupling and entanglement 11 B. Power management: rectifiers and battery 12 1. Superconducting diode rectifier 12 2. Superconducting diode quantum battery 13 C. Write-In: control and memory 15 1. Superconducting diode transistor 16 2. Superconducting diode memory 16 D. Read-Out: resonators and amplification 16 1. Superconducting diode resonator 17 2. Superconducting diode amplifiers 18 3. Field-free and Kerr-free nonlinearity 19 V. Parametric Framework: Quantum leap 20 VI. Epilogue: Future perspective 24 References 27   

> ∗mnadeem@uow.edu.au
> †xiaolin@uow.edu.au

I. INTRODUCTION 

Quantum technologies, their hardware performance, and critical functionalities rely on macroscopic quantum mechanisms intertwined with microscopic quantum phe-nomena. In quantum materials, the macroscopic prop-erties are entangled with the microscopic behavior of the electronic wave function via bulk-boundary corre-spondence. However, once these quantum materials are incorporated into quantum devices and integrated cir-cuits, c-QED [2, 3] provides a framework to translate their microscopic quantum characteristics into macro-scopic quantum functionalities. The overall performance of integrated circuits is determined by the efficiency with which quantum devices operate, which serve as the ele-mentary components for qubit operations, power deliv-ery and management, signal processing and control, data storage and memory, readout and amplification, and in-tervening elements for signal routing and noise isolation. In the integrated c-QED environment, nonlinear and nonreciprocal circuit elements are the most essential building blocks for both high-end classical computa-tion and quantum technology hardware. In current ar-chitectures, however, the nonlinearity present in qubit and qubit-interfaces is typically either dissipative, aris-ing from Kerr effects, or it is realized as dissipationless nonlinearity only by employing complex multipole quan-tum circuits. At the same time, nonreciprocity is usually achieved by inserting bulky, lossy intervening elements – such as isolators and circulators – between qubit and qubit-interfaces. Consequently, despite all breathtaking progress in building scalable quantum processors, loss and noise still shorten qubit coherence times and con-strain basic operations at the hardware level. Sustained progress in quantum technology hardware performance 

> arXiv:2604.14623v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 16 Apr 2026

2and scalability demands a device-level integration of both nonlinearity and nonreciprocity, endowed with quantum-level tunability. Addressing these challenges by culmi-nating in a device-level quantum advantage is crucial for developing a sustainable and efficient quantum techno-logical ecosystem. This study seeks to address these central concepts and challenges in the quantum technology architecture by mapping the quantum landscape of SDs [1, 4]. The SD is a new dipole circuit element that offers simulta-neous quantum control over dissipationless nonlinearity and nonreciprocity at a device-level – capabilities that are fundamental to quantum hardware operation and highly sought after for scalable implementations. In a role analogous to that of semiconducting diodes in dis-sipative semiconductor electronics, an SD exhibits direc-tional flow in non-dissipative superconducting electron-ics. At the same time, an SD promises dissipationless nonlinearity at the device-level, thereby helping to sup-press noise and errors in qubit interfaces, which would otherwise travel backward to the qubit and disturb the quantum circuit under test. Together, this inherent non-linearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity offer simultaneous control over information flow and suppression of noise in quantum electronics, opening a route toward scalable quantum technology architecture. Through these contri-butions, SDs show transformative potential to close the gap between quantum promise at the microscopic scale and quantum advantage at the macroscopic scale, bring-ing the quantum realm into everyday life. Following a concise discussion of the relevance and significance of nonreciprocal superconductivity and SDs, various superconducting diode-based devices are high-lighted, which helps to understand how to quantify de-grees of freedom and quantum-level tunability of param-eter space in an SD-integrated c-QED platform. For ex-ample, rectification efficiency, operational frequency, and odd-order Kerr-free nonlinearity are the key attributes of SDs that control anharmonicity, fidelity, and coherence-relevant parameters, the core figures of merit in quantum circuits. In c-QED, as shown in Figure 1, these SD char-acteristics become new degrees of freedom in the quan-tum technology landscape, enabling on-chip integration of qubit and qubit-interfaces. The parametric framework for these prototypical examples illustrate how device-level quantum control over the inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity of SDs can be harnessed to engi-neering SD-integrated c-QED environment that enables directional qubit transfer and entanglement generation, efficient power delivery and management via SD-based rectifiers and Josephson phase batteries, coherent control and memory operations using SD-based transistors and switching devices, high-fidelity qubit readout with non-linear SD-based resonators, and quantum-limited ampli-fication through nonreciprocal quantum material Joseph-son dipoles. In conclusion, future prospects on quan-tum material platforms and physics-defined device de-signs are presented, which could offer SD-integrated c-QED with all-electrical quantum-level tunability, achiev-ing field-free and Kerr-free nonlinearity, which may pro-vide a state-of-the-art all-superconducting platform for engineering on-chip quantum technology hardware with an isothermal classical and quantum hybrid workflow.  

> II. PROLOGUE: SEMICONDUCTORS TO SUPERCONDUCTORS

The nonreciprocity of resistive charge transport in semiconductors allows the preferential flow of electrons in one direction over the other. This property of rectify-ing and controlling the flow of charge transport, known as the diode effect, is a key mechanism that underpins a wide spectrum of nonreciprocal devices, including LEDs and regulators, solar and photovoltaic cells, sensors and detectors, circulators and isolators, as well as amplifiers and transistors. The diode-based nonreciprocal devices are equally important for both high-end classical compu-tation and quantum computing. Although semiconduc-tor diodes and devices offer many advantages, they also face notable limitations and issues, particularly related to their dissipative transport mechanisms for asymmet-ric electron-hole currents, architectural design typically made of asymmetric junctions and interfaces, and oper-ating temperature constraints. Moreover, electric field control of semiconducting diodes and devices, especially switching devices for control and memory applications, is also limited by fundamental physical laws, encapsulated by Boltzmann tyranny and thermodynamic constraints. With these limitations, semiconducting diodes and de-vices are not favorable for energy-efficient control elec-tronics and quantum technologies with ultra-low power consumption in circuits operating at ambient and cryo-genic temperatures: At high temperatures relevant for thermionic transport, energy loss is inevitable in semi-conductors because of their finite resistance. At very low (sub-Kelvin) temperatures, on the other hand, relevant for cryogenic electronics [5] and ultrasensitive (sub-THz frequencies) opto-electronics and detection [6], semicon-ductors cease to work due to their large energy gap. Such temperature constraints do not favor semiconducting de-vices for quantum-limited operations. Apart from dissi-pation and temperature constraints on electronic trans-port, causing energy loss and hindering quantum-limited performance, spin-based semiconducting devices also suf-fer from detrimental behavior between SOI-determined control and coherence; large coherence time means less-effective control processing and vise-versa. As a consequence, the critical challenge that poses a formidable hurdle for further advances in semiconduct-ing technologies is our ability and readiness to handle mounting power dissipation associated with big data and its mechanization. According to the International En-ergy Agency (IEA) [7], the total electricity consumption of data centers that process large amounts of worldwide information and in which most computation operations 3    

> FIG. 1. Conceptual framework to achieve quantum-controlled superconducting diode platform and its system-level integration and performance characterization within c-QED. The central objective of SD-integrated c-QED is to realize diode-induced inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity directly at the device-level, avoiding the need for complex circuitry, which enriches the quantum technology hardware by providing a materials-defined device-level quantum advantage together with a physics-defined integrated quantum architecture. The fundamental functionalities of SDs, such as Kerr-free nonlinearity, rectification efficiency, and operational frequency, along with their quantum-level tunability, could become new degrees of freedom for SD-integrated c-QED for directional qubit transfer and entanglement generation, efficient power delivery and management, coherent control and memory, high-fidelity readout, and quantum-limited amplification (center panel). Quantum control across the parameter space can be achieved at different stages of material and device design and fabrication by combining intrinsic quantum functionalities with extrinsic geometric asymmetries (side and top panels).

are concentrated has reached 460 terawatt-hours (TWh) in 2022 and could increase to more than 1,000 TWh in 2026. The surge in demand for computation and infor-mation processing is significantly outpacing the gains in power efficiency, presumed by Moore’s law, as the under-lying performance of the semiconducting hardware is con-strained by fundamental physical limits. Consequently, energy consumption in ICT is doubling roughly every three years and will be severely limited by global energy production within the next two decades unless new ap-proaches are developed to store, process and compute at lower energy [8]. In this context, innovative ways to in-crease functionality and reduce power dissipation in high-end computing must be sought. In comparison to semiconducting technologies, super-conducting technologies have brought a new paradigm for energy-efficient processing of information, both with classical and quantum workflow. Due to zero-resistance supercurrent or Cooper-pair transport, low noise, high coherence, intrinsically low impedance and thereby very high supercurrent rectification, and the low character-istic energy scales associated with the superconducting gap ( ∼meV) compared to the semiconductor energy gap (∼eV), superconductors offer energy-efficient thermionic transport and cryogenic (opto)electronic devices [5, 9]. Low-temperature superconductivity has shown improve-ments in cryogenic cooling efficiency and thus energy-efficient computation operations concentrated in data centers [10]. Aided by cryogenic cooling, its device appli-cations extend to superconducting electronics [5, 9, 11, 12] and superconducting spintronics [13–16], neuromor-phic computing [17], magnetometry and voltage stan-dards [5, 18], astronomy [6] and dark matter [19] detec-tors, and quantum information and communication tech-nology [20, 21], with terahertz (THz) applications [22]. However, cryogenic technologies based on conventional or reciprocal superconductors also face several limitations pertaining to scalability, electrical control, and dissipa-tion. Both high-end computation in data centers and quantum computing with superconducting quantum cir-cuitry require the scalability and optimization of super-conducting devices. For example, to scale superconduct-4ing energy-efficient rapid single flux quantum (RSFQ) circuits [23, 24] and to implement a quantum comput-ing infrastructure with integrated control and measure-ment directly at the base temperature [12, 25], one of the critical requirements is the mechanization for effi-cient dc biasing of RSFQ circuits. In addition, field-effect and gate tunability also remain a critical challenge in reciprocal superconductors [26, 27]. That is, unlike bipolar electron-hole transport in gapped semiconduc-tors, field control of supercurrent transport is a by far complex task in gapless superconductors due to macro-scopic quantum coherence, zero electrical resistance, high density of states across the Fermi level, and unipolar na-ture of charge-carrying Cooper pairs. In this context, op-timal diode effects for power management and regulation, along with efficient field control for switching devices, are highly required for practical superconducting technolo-gies at cryogenic scales. Most importantly, even with zero resistance, reciprocal superconductors dissipate, and devices made of reciprocal superconducting materials be-come noisy, mainly due to switching effects and Kerr nonlinearity. Primarily, due to the difficulty in electric control in single-crystal superconductors, conventional superconductors and devices, made of superconducting-semiconducting hybrids, rely on a combination of dissipa-tionless Cooper-pair supercurrent and dissipative quasi-particle current transport, respectively, across supercon-ducting elements and weak links [28] made of normal materials. Although this hybrid transport mechanism enables various superconducting devices and functional-ities based not only on current and inductance but also on voltage and resistance, it also causes dissipation and decoherence. Moreover, in Josephson junctions, which are the fundamental building blocks of superconducting technologies, like the pn junctions in the semiconducting superconducting, dissipationless nonlinearity is only real-izable through complex circuits made of multiple conven-tional Josephson junctions, a big hurdle for scalability in the existing superconducting quantum technology hard-ware. Furthermore, in conventional Josephson junctions, control processing relies on magnetic field or flux, which requires much higher energies than electrical processing. Despite all of their advantages, compared to their semi-conducting counterparts, superconducting technologies are held back because they lack a fundamental circuit element, the superconducting diode. The absence of non-reciprocity, and therefore of many non-reciprocal circuit elements that rely on the diode effect, is typically at-tributed to the preserved time-reversal, inversion, and thus intrinsic electron–hole symmetries that characterize a conventional BCS type-I superconducting state with a zero-momentum Cooper pairing.  

> III. SIGNIFICANCE: SUPERCONDUCTING NONRECIPROCITY

Very recently, the SDE has reemerged as a promis-ing mechanism which rectifies zero resistance supercur-rent and allows quantum control over its tunability via various quantum mechanisms unique to unconventional quantum materials [1, 4]. In the past five years, SDE have been observed in a variety of superconducting ma-terials and structures [1, 4, 29, 30], each relying on dis-tinct mechanisms to achieve rectification; intrinsic SDE based on asymmetry of the depairing current [31–38], the vortex diode effect (VDE) based on asymmetric vortex dynamics [39–46], and the Josephson diode effect (JDE) based on Josephson physics [32, 47, 48]. In addition, SDE can be based on spin-selective tunneling in the magnetic-superconductor tunnel junction, allowing spin filtering and spin splitting effects for superconducting spintron-ics [49]. The superconducting nonreciprocity offers scal-able quantum circuits with quantum-enhanced function-alities and quantum-limit noise tunability: Unlike the semiconducting diode effect limited to pn junction archi-tecture, (i) SDE can be achieved in Josephson junctions (JJ) as well as in junction-free single crystal supercon-ducting materials; (ii) SDE arises from the interplay be-tween symmetry-driven transport and intrinsic quantum functionalities of the superconductors, and thus the per-formance of SDs is tuneable via both intrinsic quantum correlations and extrinsic stimuli; (iii) SDE is inherently defined by 3rd-order Kerr-free nonlinearity, originating from the non-sinusoidal higher-harmonic contributions in the CPR. Unlike semiconductors, which seize to work at cryogenic temperatures, and reciprocal superconductors, in which efficient gate control and scalability are hard to achieve, superconducting non-reciprocity and the diode effects offer (i) genuine quantum control to capitalize the quantum advantage at the device-level, (ii) efficient elec-trical control via symmetry breaking mechanisms, and (iii) cryogenic temperature control for on-chip integration of isothermal classical control and quantum processor. For the practical applications of SDs in quantum tech-nology hardware, dissipationless nonlinearity, rectifica-tion efficiency, and operational frequency are the three figures of merit. The rectification efficiency is defined as η = ( I+ 

> c

− | I− 

> c

|)/(I+ 

> c

+ |I− 

> c

|), where I+ 

> c

and I− 

> c

are critical currents along positive and negative directions, respectively. When I+ 

> c

> I − 

> c

, say, and the amplitude of the biased current is in the SD regime ( η̸ = 0), that is, I ∈ ∆Ic = I+ 

> c

− I− 

> c

or I− 

> c

< I < I + 

> c

, then the polarity of the biased current switches the SD be-tween a superconducting state with a Cooper paired su-percurrent along one direction and a conventional resis-tive state with a single-electron normal current along the other. In general, η is sub-unitary due to a finite criti-cal current along both directions, thus restricting the SD working regime to be small. Interestingly, the efficiency of the diode can be maximized to unity, reaching the limit of an ideal diode η → 1, in driven superconduct-5ing systems, including both bulk SDs [50] and Joseph-son dipoles [51–56], Josephson triode [57], and supercur-rent interferometers with multiple Josephson junctions [51, 58]. The realization of ideal SD has also been ex-plored in bulk superconductors in thermodynamic equi-librium, such as criticality-based multiphase intrinsic su-perconductors [33, 35, 38, 59–62] and proximity-induced superconducting metals [63, 64]. These advances indicate that SD efficiency can be significantly enhanced by employing innovative circuit designs, time-dependent biasing schemes, electric field modulation, and microwave irradiation. However, even perfectly designed ideal SDs can turn noisy in the c-QED environment because of dissipation in the resis-tive state through quasiparticles moving in the reverse direction. Here, we highlight how a complete quantum control, together with temperature control and electric-field control, can be realized in SDs based on unconven-tional superconducting structures, to enable an isother-mal quantum-classical hybrid workflow.  

> A. Quantum control

The advantages in quantum devices, surpassing the classical bounds on conventional devices, can originate either from purely quantum effects or from many-body collective effects. In the former case, the quantum ad-vantage is referred to as the genuine quantum advantage (GQA), and it saturates the bounds imposed by underly-ing quantum mechanisms. While GQA guaranties minia-turization and scalability by exploiting device-level quan-tum effects, a quantum advantage due to collective effects in many-body systems could face challenges in achieving scalability due to many-body complex circuitry. Superposition and entanglement are among the most celebrated quantum phenomena, recognized for provid-ing an advantage in quantum technologies, where they coherently act together through parallel and collective processing. Alongside, quantum materials and struc-tures that constitute the quantum technology hardware display nontrivial quantum mechanical effects on micro-scopic electronic states, giving rise to exotic properties at the macroscopic scale, an entanglement between bulk and boundary states generally known as bulk-boundary correspondence. Although the electron’s wave function in conventional materials is also governed by quantum me-chanics, it typically behaves in a trivial manner, allowing classical physics to describe most states and phases. In contrast, quantum materials exhibit quantum states and phases that are less classically describable, often distin-guished by the existence of quantum phase transitions. The unique electronic, magnetic, and optical properties of quantum materials make them essential for the devel-opment of future quantum technologies, both with clas-sical and quantum circuitry. The quantum mechanical origin of SDE enable dis-sipationless quantum transport together with intrinsic quantum functionalities such as field-induced SOI and current-driven SOT, ferroelectricity and paraconductiv-ity, chirality and chirality-induced spin-selectivity, orbi-tronics and altermagnetism, and finite Berry curvature and nontrivial topology, both in momentum space and in real space [65–67]. For example, in non-centrosymmetric structures, SDE can arise from Rashba and Dresselhaus SOI [32, 34–37, 68], Radial and Chiral SOI [69–71], Ising and Kane-Mele SOI [72–76], and a crossover between these various SOI types. When topology meets supercon-ductivity, a topological SD (TSD) originates in topolog-ical superconducting hybrids [64, 77–83] and topological JJs [48, 55, 74, 75, 84–95]. SDE also originates from un-conventional quantum effects such as chirality [96–104], orbital Fulde-Ferrell pairing states and finite Cooper pair momentum [105–108], altermagnetism [60, 109, 110], fer-roelectricity [111–113] and paraconductivity [102]. In topological quantum systems, the symmetry constraints governing SDs – simultaneous breaking of space-inversion and time-reversal symmetries – can be attributed to elec-tronic chirality and/or magnetic chirality. The quantum-mechanical advantage in SDs not only enables improved performance via distinctive quantum transport mechanisms but also offers noise-resilience and makes it possible to surpass the fundamental bounds in conventional systems. In the context of nonlinear and nonreciprocal quantum transport, topological quantum materials bridge the gap between normal electronic states (such as conventional semiconductors and ordinary met-als) and superconducting states. For example, magne-tochiral anisotropy (MCA) is one of the nonlinear and nonreciprocal quantum effects directly linked with SOI and Zeeman splitting. In trivial normal states, such as conventional semiconductors and metals, the MCA coef-ficient γN is typically very tiny, usually of the order of 

∼ 10 −3 to 10 0 T−1 A−1 [114–118]. This is because the SOI energy ( Esoi ) and the Zeeman energy ( μB B) in these trivial normal states is usually much smaller (by many or-ders of magnitude) than the semiconducting energy scale (∼ eV ) or the Fermi energy EF that defines the kinetic energy of the electrons. On the other hand, quantum me-chanical origin of MCA allows a highly controllable non-linearity and nonreciprocity in quantum materials [119– 131], in which MCA coefficient γQ ranges from 10 2 T−1

A−1 in carbon nanotubes [132] and topological semimetal ZrTe 5 [133, 134] to 10 5 T−1 A−1 in (Bi 1−xSb x)2Te 3

(BST) TI nanowires [125]. This indicates that the MCA arising from nontrivial topological quantum states can approach the magnitude of the MCA observed in super-conductors, namely γS ≈ 10 6 T−1 A−1 [32]. Overall, de-pending on how quantum effects manifest and what role they play in the system, MCA in quantum materials typ-ically falls into an intermediate regime, situated between conventional semiconducting/metallic behavior and su-perconducting behavior, such that γN ≪ γQ < γ S . In other words, in contrast to semiconductors, which feature highly dissipative charge transport and therefore exhibit only weak MCA, and in a manner more analogous to su-6                             

> FIG. 2. A schematic drawing of superconducting diode platforms. (a) Semiconducting diode effect in bulk (left) and p-n junction (center), and the I–V characteristic (right), with a dissipative electron transport in both forward and reverse direction. (b) Superconducting diode effect (SDE) ( I+
> c> I −
> c) in junction-free bulk superconductors (left) and Josephson junctions (center), and I–V characteristic (right), with a dissipationless Cooper pair transport in the forward direction while a dissipative unpaired-electron transport in the reverse biased configuration. (c) Ideal quantum superconducting diode effect (QSDE) ( I+
> c>0, I −
> c= 0 and η= 100%) in junction-free bulk superconductors (left) and Josephson junctions (center), and I–V characteristic (right), with a dissipationless Cooper pair flow in both forward and reverse biased configuration [54]. Here plateaus in the I–V characteristic reflect the asymmetric Shapiro steps, with quantized potential values of nhf / 2e, where n= 1 ,2, ... is an integer, eis electron charge, his Planck’s constant, and fis the microwave frequency. In the QSD regime highlighted by purple and green, quantized voltage drops in the reversed bias only, even though Cooper pairs flow in both forward and reversed biased configurations. (d) Proposed topological quantum superconducting diode effect (TQSDE) ( I+
> c> I −
> c) in junction-free bulk superconductors (left) and Josephson junctions (center), and I–V characteristic (right), with a dissipationless Cooper pair transport in the forward direction while a dissipationless unpaired-electron chiral transport in the reverse biased configuration. Discrete steps in the I–V curve reflect the quantized Hall plateaus in the normal state. The wiggly lines represent dissipative transport while paired/unpaired arrows represent supercurrent/chiral transport in superconducting/topological phase.

perconductors, which enable dissipationless supercurrent and display large MCA, topological quantum materials allow dissipationless normal current transport with a re-markably high MCA [125], even without any supercon-ducting order. Moreover, the dissipation induced by the quasiparticle current in the reverse direction can be eliminated, and the noise resilience of SDs can be enhanced through the quan-tization of transport. For example, a quantum supercon-ducting diode (QSD) has recently been proposed in JDs [52–54], in which the quantized Cooper pair current flows in both forward and reverse directions, and the diode efficiency can reach the maximum value of η = 100% when microwave irradiation is applied together with a time-dependent current. A microwave controlled field-free ideal QSD with Josephson junctions made of high-Tc

twisted cuprates can function above the liquid-nitrogen temperature [54]. As shown in Figure 2(c), QSDE is characterized by the development of asymmetric Shapiro steps between the positive and negative current direc-tions, with quantized potential values of nhf / 2e, where 

n = 1 , 2, ... is an integer, e is the electron charge, h

is Planck’s constant, and f is the microwave frequency. The nonreciprocity of the QSD is realized by switching the current between two distinct states, each formed by Cooper pairs: a superconducting regime in the forward biased configuration where the supercurrent flows with-out generating any voltage (V=0), and a dissipationless regime with quantized potential values of V = nhf / 2e

(V = hf / 2e or V = hf /e ) in the reverse biased con-figuration. Such a QSD exhibiting asymmetric Shapiro steps can be modeled using Josephson elements described by a damped Josephson potential, with their dynamics governed by the ac Josephson effect [53]. Compared to SDs and conventional Josephson junctions, the ideal QSD with quantized transport can be utilized for efficient mi-crowave controlled logic operations and noise filtering, as demonstrated in QSD with Josephson junctions made of high-Tc twisted cuprates [54], and microwave resonators along with protected superconducting qubits, as estab-lished in QSD with Josephson junctions made of planar germanium [52]. Quantization of transport, both in the forward and re-verse directions, can further enhance the performance of 7QSDs made of topological quantum materials. Quantized topological transport, like quantized Cooper pair trans-port in the normal state [52–54], can be the cornerstone for exploring a whole host of topological quantum mate-rials where the diode effect is associated with a quantum phase transition between superconducting phase, allow-ing dissipationless supercurrent transport in one direc-tion, and topological quantum phase, allowing dissipa-tionless topological transport in the other direction. As shown in Figure 2(d), we refer to this QSD as topological QSD (TQSD). Topological quantum materials not only provide an extra layer of protection against noise and decoherence but also allow tunability and optimization of SDE. For example, unlike conventional semiconduc-tors, in which field effects are constrained by fundamental physical limits, topological quantum field effects in quan-tum materials allow the inclusion of quantum functional-ities to overcome physical constraints [135–138]. In addi-tion, unlike semiconductors where the energy gap ( ∼eV) is large and SOI-determined control and coherence time are detrimental to each other, the low-energy scales asso-ciated with the superconducting gap ( ∼meV) make SOI [17, 139] and other quantum effects relevant. Thus, the zero-resistance and high coherence of spin-orbit coupled superconductors could be extended from charge currents to spin current, added by inherent nonlinearity and in-trinsic nonreciprocity, to enable quantum-limited SOI-determined control without compromising coherence. To this end, graphene-based SDs, made of bulk supercon-ducting structures [33, 38, 140, 141] and Josephson junc-tions [142–147], can offer efficient spintronic applications, where a long coherence time can be retained along with symmetry-controlled electric field switching.  

> B. Temperature control

Temperature constraints in the existing non-integrated architectures remain one of the most significant obstacles to scalability and control in current quantum technolo-gies, where quantum circuits operate at cryogenic tem-peratures while the classical control and processing elec-tronics reside at room temperature. The architectural separation between classical and quantum workflow in-troduces fundamental challenges in managing both tem-perature control and field control because thermal and electromagnetic noise generated by room-temperature semiconducting control electronics is inevitably transmit-ted to the cryogenic quantum circuits, thereby reducing coherence and limiting overall system performance. This is because the semiconductor control electronics, which is restricted by fundamental physical laws and thermo-dynamic constraints, produces heat dissipation and noise that exceed the quantum limit by several orders of mag-nitude. In addition, thermodynamic constraints are also translated into operational limitations on frequency and noise generation, even at the cryogenic temperature. However, temperature control in SDs is more efficient, whereas thermodynamic constraints are more relaxed. For example, unlike semiconducting diodes and devices, which cease to work at cryogenic temperatures, SD effi-ciency typically increases as the temperature is lowered and approaches its maximum value near the absolute temperature ( T = 0). Moreover, criticality-based ther-modynamic constraints limit the efficiency of bulk SDs (η ≪ 1), and the ideal diode behavior ( η = 1) can only be achieved by fine tuning to a quantum critical point [59]. In contrast, driven nonreciprocal superconducting systems can attain ideal SD behavior even at finite tem-peratures. To attain complete quantum control over the optimization and tunability of SDs, one way is to devise criticality-based quantum phase transition (QPT) mod-els that incorporate microscopic scales characterizing the QPT at finite temperature. Critical scaling, which ex-tends beyond the standard extraction of critical expo-nents, can translate the underlying principles of equilib-rium criticality to non-equilibrium or dynamical quan-tum phase transitions [148]. Depending on the operating temperature, SDE can be probed in two different ways: 1) SDE arising from the nonreciprocity of the depairing current close to the crit-ical temperature ( T ≈ Tc), which appears in the fluctu-ation regime of the metal–superconductor resistive tran-sition and can be described via current–voltage charac-teristics and resistive measurements [31, 32]; and 2) SDE originating from the nonreciprocity of the supercurrent at temperatures T ≪ Tc, which manifests deep within the superconducting phase and can be modeled through the current–phase relation and inductive measurements [32]. In addition to current, resistance, and inductance, nonreciprocity can also be characterized by paraconduc-tivity in the normal state close to the critical temperature (T → Tc) [102]. Moreover, resistive measurements can be used to determine the SDE by probing asymmetric vor-tex dynamics [43] at temperatures significantly below the critical temperature that defines the depairing current. Furthermore, temperature can be utilized as a control parameter to optimize the SDE. For instance, unlike con-ventional VDE where asymmetric vortex dynamics arises from an out-of-plane magnetic field, nonreciprocal behav-ior with an in-plane magnetic field dominates the nonre-ciprocity arising from the out-of-plane magnetic field in topological/chiral kagome superconductor CsV 3Sb 5 [101] [101]. Similarly, SDE in Rashba superconductors with an in-plane magnetic field, such as Bi/Ni bilayer [149], mag-nifies in the temperature regime associated with vortex dynamics, even though SDE vanishes under a perpendic-ular magnetic field. Interestingly, the base temperature of SD-integrated superconducting quantum circuits can be controlled through the selection of candidate materi-als, ranging from conventional low-Tc superconductors to unconventional high-Tc superconductors [54, 150–154]. 8 

> C. All-electrical control

All-electrical control, whether via electric fields or elec-tric currents, is essential for achieving energy-efficient switching in devices used for information processing, data storage, and signal amplification, such as transis-tors, memory elements, and amplifiers. In nonrecipro-cal superconductors, by contrast to conventional semi-conductors in which field control is largely ineffective at cryogenic scales, field control is intrinsically linked to symmetry-determined transport, which can be readily switched by reversing the gate polarity or the polariza-tion of electric or magnetic fields. In addition, switch-ing mechanisms can also be implemented by manipu-lating intrinsic magnetization and ferroelectricity, along with current-driven SOT. Moreover, unlike reciprocal superconductors in which electric-field control is diffi-cult to realize and magnetic-field control is inefficient, nonreciprocity in superconductors effectively control the switching via symmetry-defined transport direction, in-stead of manipulating the unipolar electron density of states across the Fermi level. The switching of superconducting nonreciprocity, by reversing the externally applied magnetic field or the in-trinsic magnetization, applies to both intrinsic SDs, in which the MCA switches its sign, and extrinsic SDs, in which the Meissner screening current (MSC) switches its direction. In addition, it is well understood that the SDs exhibit non-monotonic behavior under a magnetic field or magnetization; the SD efficiency switches sign with in-creasing the strength of magnetic field or magnetization. However, magnetic field bias, and stray magnetic fields, consume a large amount of energy, which presents several challenges for superconducting qubits in the spin environ-ment [155] and magnetic/thermal burn-in and magnetic tolerance of switching devices [156]. In this context, a magnetic field-free and field-resilient SD is highly desired that can tolerate stray fields in cryogenic superconduct-ing circuits [112]. Interestingly, these losses and challenges can be evaded via all-electrical control – all without relying on mag-netic fields – for switching mechanisms in SDs and cor-responding superconducting control electronics. Several distinct mechanisms for all-electrical switching have been demonstrated in SDs, including gate polarity and electric field induced SOI, electric field controlled ferroelectric polarization, and current-driven SOT. For example, gate-tunable SDE has been reported in graphene-based SDs, such as gate-defined JDE realized in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene (MATBLG) [142–146], ge-based joseph-son devices with gate-controlled tunable harmonic con-tent [157], Rashba semiconductor-based JJ (Al/InAs/Al) with gate-controlled barrier transparency [158], topolog-ical insulator (BiSbTeSe 2) based JJ [159], superconduc-tor/ferromagnet multilayers with spin-SDE [160], Dayem bridge-based SQUID [161] and multi-terminal Josephson devices [162]. Similarly, SDE switching has also been pre-sented by electric-field-induced control of ferroelectricity [111–113] and current-driven SOT and the warping ef-fect [163, 164] and dynamics of magnetic domains and skyrmions along the racetrack [65]. These mechanisms can be efficiently implemented in SDs exhibiting structural inversion asymmetry, where SOI and other quantum effects become important be-cause of the low energy scales set by the superconduct-ing gap ( ∼meV). They are also applicable in SDs that possess electronic or magnetic chirality arising from non-trivial topological properties. Among these, all-electric field control of SDs promises efficient switching devices for superconducting and hybrid quantum technologies, since electric fields typically require much lower energies than magnetic-field- or current-based control schemes. Thus, quantum-enhanced, symmetry-driven all-electrical switching of superconducting traits motivates the incor-poration of SDs into cryogenic control hardware. An ef-ficient gate-control responsiveness and nearly ideal SD performance at cryogenic temperatures (10mK - 4K), a regime where semiconducting control electronics cease to work, makes SD-integrated c-QED ideal for on-chip inte-gration of all-superconducting quantum processors, with coherent classical and quantum control.  

> D. Isothermal hybrid workflow

Quantum computing technologies have come to the forefront as a more powerful alternative to classical semi-conducting technologies. However, even with quan-tum computing systems at hand, ultra-fast and energy-efficient classical computing devices are required to con-trol the processing of quantum computing. Neverthe-less, the absence of a cryogenic diode in current quantum hardware architectures poses fundamental challenges to the control and scalability of quantum-classical hybrid workflows. On the one hand, temperature constraints necessitate a non-integrated system architecture, where quantum computing at the cryogenic temperature is con-trolled by classical processing at the ambient tempera-ture, while on the other hand, inefficiency of nonlinear and nonreciprocal devices causes a major challenge for scalability of a quantum processor at the cryogenic tem-perature. In both of these classical and quantum workflows op-erating at different temperatures, heat dissipation is a common challenge. In the former case, heat loss is associ-ated with dissipative transport in semiconductors, which is constrained by fundamental physical principles. In the latter case, nonlinearity induced by Kerr-effect and the nonreciprocity delivered by bulky intervening elements generate dissipation and noise. In addition, operation of quantum computer circuitry at temperatures close to absolute zero is vulnerable to the effects of unwanted thermal and electromagnetic noise, interference, or de-coherence of the quantum state, mostly coming from the wires connecting low-temperature quantum circuitry to ambient-temperature electronics circuitry. 9           

> FIG. 3. Nonreciprocal Josephson dipole elements. (a) Nonreciprocal Josephson dipole (NJD), such as Josephson junction, SQUID, and SNAIL acting as current-controlled nonlinear inductor, flux-controlled nonlinear inductor, and phase-flux controlled Kerr-free nonlinear dipole, respectively. bNonreciprocal Josephson quadrupole (NJQ), such as 4-port Josephson ring modulator (JRM), acting as flux-controlled Kerr-free nonlinear quadrupole. (c) Josephson phase battery with Josephson junction and SQUID (right) and a schematics of 2-port full-wave bridge rectifier (left), in comparison to 4-port JRM. (d) Three basic types of superconducting qubit circuits (in purple color) – charge qubit, phase qubit, and flux qubit – and improved version of these different types of superconducting qubits with additional components (in black color) – transmon and low-decoherence qubit. eCircuit models of gate and flux-controlled NJDs shunted to capacitor, a Josephson junction made of ferromagnetic-superconductor hybrid (top) and SQUID (bottom). In all these circuits, key for the qubit and qubit interfaces, conventional Josephson junctions are replace with NJDs or Josephson diodes (JDs) to engineer SD-integrated circuit quantum electrodynamic (c-QED) environment for quantum technology hardware.

SD has recently emerged as a promising candidate for implementing both classical and quantum workflows. That is, along with directional quantum state transfer and entanglement generation with SD-integrated qubit-resonator setup, SDs also promise superconducting con-trol electronic for classical processing, rectification, and amplification. The inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity of SDs provide an ideal c-QED platform to design isothermal hybrid workflow to implement in-tegrated qubit control and readout while minimizing backaction on the qubit, thermal load, electromagnetic noise, and other external perturbations. Thus, the SD-integrated c-QED environment offers the possibility of on-chip integration of qubit and qubit-interfaces operat-ing at the same temperature scale, by means of a fully integrated all-superconducting hybrid circuitry in which both classical and quantum workflows can be executed concurrently to fully capitalize the quantum advantage.  

> IV. SUPERCONDUCTING DIODE-INTEGRATED C-QED

SD is a superconducting counterpart of a semiconduct-ing diode, rectifies the zero-resistance supercurrent, and thus represents an ideal building block that allows non-dissipative superconducting technologies in the way the traditional diode is for dissipative semiconducting tech-nologies. With inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonre-ciprocity, integrated with unique superconducting char-acteristics such as zero-resistance and high coherence, SDs hold transformative potential for energy-efficient and high-performance computing architectures with classical, quantum, and quantum-classical hybrid workflow. Cur-rent research efforts are broadening the scope of SD-based applications for quantum circuitry, including spin-related logic and memory applications [165–167], spin diodes [49, 160] and heat engine [168], Josephson devices with tunable harmonic content [157] and phase battery [169], superconducting antenna [170], sensors [66] and detectors [171], superconducting chiral/neuronal transis-10 tors [65, 163], superconducting full-wave bridge rectifiers for quantum circuitry [172, 173], diode-controlled trans-mon qubit chain circuit [174, 175], and directional logic operations [163, 175, 176]. Collectively, these studies in-dicate that establishing a quantum-enhanced parametric framework for SDs can significantly advance the perfor-mance of qubits and qubit interfaces for on-chip quan-tum processors, along with isothermal classical control processing. Here, we revisit the progress of various SD-integrated quantum circuits, discuss their potential advantages over conventional superconducting counterparts, and high-light the potential ramifications that SDs and SD-based nonreciprocal circuits can bring to quantum circuits to revolutionize superconducting electronics and spintron-ics for integrated quantum technology hardware. To elu-cidate and assess the influence of SDs within SD-based quantum circuits, both qualitatively and quantitatively, we systematically examine the physical characteristics, material specifications, and quantum functionalities of SDs themselves and SD-integrated quantum circuit archi-tectures. Given that Josephson junctions and their asso-ciated Josephson circuits constitute key building blocks of qubits and qubit interfaces, as illustrated in Figure 3, we place particular emphasis on the analysis of nonlin-earity and nonreciprocity in JDEs.  

> A. Qubit: anharmonicity and entanglement

In quantum processors, the qubit circuitry is inter-faced with the power delivery system, control processor, memory elements, and readout resonators. In such a c-QED environment, qubit anharmonicity, one-way transfer of qubits, directional qubit-qubit coupling, and nonreciprocal entanglement generation are fundamental ingredients to the recipe of coherent qubit circuit op-eration, shielding the qubit from noise and operational errors, thereby enabling high-fidelity state readout. Quite recently, it has been demonstrated that the incorporation of SDs into quantum circuits can facilitate tunable anharmonicity, high-fidelity qubit transfer, and directional entanglement generation [174, 175]. Here, we discuss the progress and potential ramifications that SDs can bring to superconducting qubits and superconducting quantum circuits embedded with these device-level nonreciprocal elements.  

> 1. Anharmonicity and qubit transfer

The quantum diode is a key element for controlling a one-way transfer of qubits. In a quantum circuit, the one-way excitation transfer process is essential for both qubit control and high-fidelity. In general, similar to the case in rectifiers and power management systems, the quality of the quantum diode, which is character-ized by its fidelity, can be improved by increasing the rectification efficiency [177]. However, by simulating the transmon qubit chain circuit with SDs, as shown in Figure 4 (a-c), Zhong et al. [174] demonstrated that even an intermediate SD efficiency could allow optimal performance by influencing much broader functionalities through an interplay of intrinsic quantum phenomena. It unlocks the potential of SDs, which simultaneously allow qubit anharmonicity —by preserving nonlinearity, which is key to stabilizing two-level systems, and qubit control —by suppressing backward noise flow, which is key to high-fidelity. In fact, the efficiency of SDE η acts as a new degree of freedom to optimize the anharmonicity of the superconducting qubit and the fidelity of quantum circuits. The realization of qubit anharmonicity and high-fidelity quantum circuits is achieved by stabilizing two-level systems using van der Waals (vdW) twisted SDs. The SDE is observed in twisted NbSe 2 bilayers, where a small twist of θ = 1 ◦ induces an efficiency ∼ 27%, nearly an order of magnitude higher than in the pris-tine case [178]. However, compared to other experimen-tal work reported on 2D vdW superconducting materials [33, 72, 89, 150, 151, 179, 180], the rectification efficiency and the average critical current in twisted NbSe 2 bilay-ers takes an intermediate values. In addition, unlike the pristine case in which the Ising spin-orbit coupled pair-ing is favorable [181], the dependence of SDE efficiency on both out-of-plane and in-plane magnetic fields indicates an unconventional Ising pairing in the twisted NbSe 2 bi-layers. This could be attributed to the coexistence of Ising- and Rashba-type SOI, which is derived from a twist-induced orbital magnetization that spontaneously breaks both time-reversal and inversion symmetries in twisted NbSe 2 bilayers. A one-way transfer of qubits is demonstrated through quantum simulations performed in the gate-based simu-lation framework of QuTip [182]. As shown in Figure 4 (a), a transmon qubit chain circuit interconnects trans-mon qubits (Q 1,Q 2,Q 3) with Josephson junctions based on twisted NbSe 2 bilayers (J 1, J 2), acting as Josephson diodes. The qubit anharmonicity, under varying SDE ef-ficiency, is numerically simulated through the potential-energy landscape of the transmon qubit as a function of the phase difference introduced by the SDE, Figure 4 (b). The two quantum states —the ground state “0” and the first excited state “1”, energetically separated from the higher-excited continuum states —can be sta-bilized in the tilted cosine-like potential through precise tuning of η. In this case, in order to maintain consis-tency between the numerical simulations of the qubit chain circuit and the experimental observations of SDE in twisted NbSe 2 bilayers, strong qubit anharmonicity is maintained in the optimal parameter regime, η ≈ 27 .6% and EJ /E C = 20 .0, where exactly two-level qubit states are bound in the central potential well. The transport fidelity, across the parameter space of 11 

FIG. 4. Superconducting diode-controlled nonreciprocal qubit transfer (a-c) and qubit-qubit coupling (d-f ). (a) 

Transmon qubit chain circuit with SDs made of twisted NbSe 2 bilayers in the form of Josephson junctions. (b) A characteristic asymmetric multi-well configuration revealed by the potential-energy landscape that arises from an interplay between the Josephson coupling energy and the phase bias introduced by the SDE. Corresponding quantized energy eigenstates, represented by the discrete horizontal lines, are overlaid on the potential energy profiles for η = 10% allowing three bound states in the central potential well (left), η = 27 .6% maintaining exactly two bound states in the central potential well (center), and η = 50% supporting only one bound state in the central potential well (right). This evolution demonstrates that an effectively ideal two-level system can be achieved by systematically modifying the SDE efficiency, such that the two lowest-energy bound states that constitute the qubit levels (highlighted in red and blue) stay spatially confined within the central potential valley and remain energetically separated from higher-lying continuum states by the surrounding potential barriers. (c) Fidelity difference between forward and reverse qubit transfer as a function of diode efficiency and evolution time, shown in the absence of noise (top panel) and in the presence of noise (bottom panel). Figure panels (a-c) are reproduced with permission from ref.[174]. (d) Qubit-resonator circuit showing two qubits inductively coupled to a two-port SD-resonator where flux-biased asymmetric SQUID exhibits SDE, allowing Cooper pair supercurrent along the direction of forward bias while quasiparticle current along the direction of reverse bias. (e) Schematic of nonreciprocal qubit-qubit coupling driven by SD-resonator. The broken time-reversal symmetry, by external flux bias (Φ 0), induces SDE in SQUID, generates asymmetric modes in the SD-resonator, and makes qubit-qubit coupling complex and nonreciprocal, Jij = |J|eiϕ ij , where non-local phase ϕ12 = −ϕ21 = φ

is determined by the nonreciprocal response of the SD-resonator, which is induced by asymmetric mode propagation. f

Spectroscopic characterization of SD on the two-port network. (Left) Transmission spectrum showing scattering matrix S(ω)with respect to probe frequency ωpr /ω r , normalized by resonator frequency ( ωr = 5 GHz); degenerate forward S21 (ω) (blue) and backward S12 (ω) (red) transmission for δω = 0 and S21 (ω) and S12 (ω) with asymmetric shift for δω = 50MHz. Nonreciprocity ratio R(ω) for δω = 50MHz is shown in green. (Right) Third-order Josephson nonlinearity ( c3/∆ as a function of flux Φ b and asymmetric SQUID transmission, τ1 (τ2 = 0 .8). Figure panels (d-f) are reproduced with permission from ref.[175] 

η and the evolution time, quantifies the performance of the SDE and the overall transmon qubit chain circuit, as shown in Figure 4 (c). In this framework, the forward (reverse) fidelity provides a quantitative measure of how accurately an excitation is transferred in the forward (re-verse) direction. In ideal noiseless evolution, the SDE ex-hibits ideal behavior —maximum forward fidelity Ff → 1and minimum reverse fidelity Fr → 0. The difference be-tween forward and reverse fidelity also remains visible in noisy simulations that include realistic noise sources in-cluding parameter fluctuations of EJ , charge noise rep-resenting Cooper pair number fluctuations, phase noise from flux variations, energy dissipation modeling envi-ronmental coupling, and measurement uncertainty. Sim-ilar robustness persists for the overall fidelity difference between forward and reverse qubit transfer, validating the potential of SDs for practical quantum circuit appli-cations in a typical noisy experimental environment. 

2. Qubit-Qubit coupling and entanglement 

N. Dirnegger et al, [175] used a flux-controlled su-perconducting diode, formed by an asymmetric SQUID, with a minimal two-qubit system and demonstrated co-herent nonreciprocal qubit-qubit inductive coupling and a tunable Bell-state generation through a nonrecipro-cal half-iSWAP gate. As shown in Figure 4 (d-f), a two-qubit (Q1,Q2) circuit is inductively coupled to the SQUID-based SD-resonator, which is biased by external flux Φ 0. The nonlinear inductive response, driven by flux bias in the cQED setup, enables flux-controlled nonre-12 ciprocal resonance shifts in the transmission spectrum of the superconducting diode resonator. In turn, the cou-pling between the two qubits captures the nonreciprocity carried by the asymmetric modes in the SD transmission spectrum, which makes the coupling between qubits com-plex, J12 = J exp iϕ 12 , where J is the coupling strength and ϕ12 = φ is a nonlocal phase. In principle, the ap-proach remains valid for realizing nonreciprocal coupling between nearest neighbor qubits within a n-qubit system where qubits Q1,Q2,....Qn are inductively coupled with different ports of the same SD resonator [183]. The flux-controlled non-local phase ϕ12 = φ, which is determined by the nonreciprocal response of SD, turns out to be an SD-driven degree of freedom to passively govern the nonreciprocal coupling between qubits. The microscopic origin and the role of the SD-resonator in nonreciprocal qubit-qubit coupling can be characterized by extracting the non-local phase in terms of recip-rocal ( Jrec  

> 12

) and nonreciprocal ( Jnrec  

> 12

) counterparts of the coupling (where J12 = Jrec  

> 12

+ iJ nrec  

> 12

), i.e., ϕ12 =tan −1(Jnrec  

> 12

/J rec  

> 12

). The sign reversal of Jnrec  

> 12

under an external bias flux (Φ b) makes the qubit-qubit coupling nonreciprocal. The nonreciprocity encoded in J12 and 

ϕ12 reflects the same fundamental principles that govern nonreciprocal coupling in any quantum system with bro-ken time-reversal [184, 185]. However, in the qubit circuit coupled to an SD-resonator, the flux-dependent nonlinear inductive response and nonreciprocal resonance shifts ob-served in the SD-resonator’s transmission spectrum make the nonreciprocity of qubit-qubit coupling explicitly SD-determined, with the direction of excitation transfer gov-erned by the flux-controlled sign of ϕ12 .In the SD-resonator, with flux-controlled resonance shifts, nonreciprocity of SD arises from a third-order Josephson nonlinearity. This third-order nonlinearity is also a source of three-wave mixers, including the quadrupole Josephson ring modulator (JRM) [186–188] and dipole Josephson elements such as Superconducting Nonlinear Asymmetric Inductive eLement (SNAIL) [189– 192], SQUID [193, 194], and a single Josephson junction with a magnetic weak link [194] or a one-junction SQUID [195]. The realization of minimal third-order nonlinear-ity allows maximal coupling between frequency crowding modes while minimizing unwanted Kerr frequency shifts. Within a circuit QED architecture, a minimal single-junction dipole Josephson element [194] enables Kerr-free three-wave mixing parametric amplification while simultaneously offering enhanced power-handling capa-bility and efficient three-wave coupling between qubits and qubit-interfaces, thus supporting higher information throughput. It shows that a Josephson diode made of quantum materials, with an intrinsic capability to pro-vide both nonreciprocity and Kerr-free nonlinearity in a single-junction dipole device, opens a new paradigm for the realization of scalable quantum technology hardware.  

> B. Power management: rectifiers and battery

Rectifiers and quantum phase batteries, with persis-tent voltage bias and current-rectification and persistent phase bias and phase-tunability, respectively, are crit-ical for power delivery and management within quan-tum circuits in an integrated environment. As with any other qubit-interface, nonreciprocity and nonlinear-ity also play a central role in preventing dissipation and noise flow into the qubit system. To this end, supercon-ducting nonreciprocity offers new platforms for scalable and integrated c-QED with a superconducting diode rec-tifier (SD-rectifier) and a superconducting diode quan-tum phase battery (SD-QPB).  

> 1. Superconducting diode rectifier

The superconducting diode-based full-wave bridge rectifiers have been reported recently by two indepen-dent groups of researchers [172, 173], which advances the utilization of SDE for power management systems in scalable circuits for quantum technologies [196]. In both of these studies, rectifiers are based on extrinsic SDE caused by asymmetric vortex dynamics, though the underlying mechanisms that lead to the asymmetric dynamics could be different. A superconducting thin film with edge asymmetry acts as a vortex diode as a result of the asymmetric vortex surface barrier under an out-of-plane magnetic field [39, 41–46]. This type of magnetic field-driven vortex diode is referred to as type-A SDE. A thin-film bilayer of a superconductor and a ferromagnetic insulator also acts as a vortex diode due to the remanent magnetic field emanating from the ferromagnetic insulator [40, 43]. This type of magnetization-driven vortex diode is called type-C SDE. In this sense, type-C SDE could also be termed zero-field or field-free SDE. Matteo Castellani et al. [172] fabricated a supercon-ducting full-wave bridge rectifier loop by integrating four niobium nitride micro-bridges on a single microchip, by creating triangular notches on a 13-nm thick film of nio-bium nitride on a SiO 2 substrate. Each individual micro-bridge, with a triangular notche cut into one of its edges, acts as a magnetic field-driven type-A SD due to the asymmetric vortex surface barrier under an out-of-plane magnetic field, performs half-wave rectification up to 120 MHz and achieves a peak rectification efficiency of 43 %. The field-driven niobium-based on-chip bridge recti-fier performs full-wave rectification of a 3 MHz continu-ous signal, and AC-to-DC conversion of a signal even at higher frequencies, up to 50 MHz in burst mode (short 

periodic bursts) with a peak power efficiency of 50 %. Josep Ingla-Ayn´ es et al. [173] engineered a su-perconducting full-wave bridge rectifier by patterning four superconducting diodes on thin-film bilayers of vanadium/europium-sulfide (V/EuS), as shown in Fig-13 ure 5 (a-c). The efficiency of individual V/EuS SDs is optimized (up to 50%) by combining the effect of edge asymmetry in a superconducting vanadium film (6-nm thick) and stray fields emanating from a ferromagnetic insulator EuS film (5-nm-thick), and the functionality of the fabricated SD bridge is demonstrated at cryogenic temperatures of a few Kelvin ( ≈ 1.7 K). Although the SDE that originated from edge asymmetry (type-A) is induced by an out-of-plane magnetic field ( Bz ∼ 4 − 5Oe), the SDE that originated from stray fields (type-C) is a consequence of an in-plane magnetization ( My ) of EuS. A remanent magnetic field from the EuS film, in combination with asymmetry at the edges of the vana-dium film, resulted in full-wave rectification with a rec-tification efficiency of up to 43%, and AC-to-DC signal conversion capabilities at frequencies up to 40 kHz. In both of these bridge rectifiers, consistent with the underlying symmetry constraints of SDE with broken time-reversal symmetry, the diode polarity can be re-versed by inverting the orientation of the field or mag-netization. Field-control polarity reversal is an essen-tial capability for power management systems. However, for the integration of SDR with energy-efficient super-conducting and quantum technologies, a field-free SDE is desired. In this context, SDR made of thin-film bi-layers of V/EuS that leverage the remanent fields min-imizes the need for an external magnetic field. On the other hand, SDR made of NbN micro-bridges is capable of operating at higher frequencies up to the megahertz range. The high rectification efficiency (up to 50%) and high operating frequency (up to the megahertz range), as well as field-free full-wave rectification in these seminal reports open a window for exploring novel superconduct-ing traits and optimized superconducting structures for efficient power delivery at cryogenic temperatures.  

> 2. Superconducting diode quantum battery

As in a classical battery, a quantum battery is a quan-tum mechanical system that can charge, store, and dis-charge energy. Typically, these three operational stages can be identified in a quantum system with a discrete and anharmonic energy spectrum of finite bandwidth, where charging and discharging takes place through a unitary transformation between ground-state energy and excited-energy state. Typically, a quantum battery can be described by a many-body interacting Hamiltonian 

H = H0 + λ(t)HI , where H0 = PNi=1 hi represents a quantum battery made of N identical cells, Hi is a charg-ing Hamiltonian that characterizes interactions between battery elements, and λ(t) is a classical control parame-ter that simulates external stimuli. In interacting many-body QBs, interactions among battery elements gener-ate quantum correlations that lead to a genuine quan-tum advantage (GQA). The GQA, which originates from purely quantum effects rather than many-body collective effects, lies in surpassing and saturating the bounds on capacity (i.e., the maximum stored or extractable energy) and power (i.e., the minimum charging time or maximum charging speed) of QBs [198]. The progress and development of quantum batter-ies [199, 200], designed for coherent energy storage and transfer in quantum circuits [201], has been ex-panded to include a range of solid-state material plat-forms [202, 203]. In addition, the ideas of nonlinearity [204, 205] and nonreciprocity [206–212] in a quantum charger-battery setup [213–215] have recently been in-troduced. In nonlinear bosonic quantum batteries [204], a nonlinear coupling between the charger and the bat-tery (each modeled as a harmonic oscillator) during the non-equilibrium charging process gives rise to a GQA: nonlinearity in the interacting many-body ( N ) quantum battery saturates the quantum speed limit (QSL) [216– 219], so the optimal charging time matches the QSL time (τQSL ∝ N −1/2), and the charging power scales super-linearly with N (P (τQSL ) ∝ N 3/2), reaching the bound set by entanglement generation [198]. In nonreciprocal quantum batteries, the one-way transfer of energy from the quantum charger to the battery leads to a signif-icantly greater accumulation of stored energy than in conventional and reciprocal charger–battery setups [206]. The enhancement of the charging-energy dynamics due to nonreciprocity is typically achieved through reservoir engineering within the charger–battery setup, in which the quantum charger and the battery are simultaneously coupled to a common reservoir via local dissipative inter-actions, which establish a coherent coupling between the charger and the battery. These proposals offer a promis-ing novel pathway for power delivery and management in quantum technologies; nonetheless, the realization of a quantum battery exhibiting dissipationless nonlinearity and nonreciprocity still remains a distant prospect. To this end, we focus in particular on the physics and mechanization of QBs based on superconducting materi-als and architectures and seek how dissipationless non-linearity and nonreciprocity can be simultaneously incor-porated via diode effects at the device-level. The funda-mental ideas of superconducting quantum batteries have been explored in multiple superconducting platforms, in-cluding earlier implementations based on superconduct-ing qutrits (three-level systems) [220], superconducting qubits (two-level systems) [221–224], and Josephson ele-ments with anomalous Josephson effect [169, 225]. Interacting many-body QBs composed of two-level sys-tems (TLSs), as shown in Figure 5 (d), such as Dicke QBs [214, 226] (N TLSs coupled to a single cavity mode via the Dicke Hamiltonian [227]) with an advantage due to many-body collective effects and Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) QBs [197] (N spin-1/2 TLSs interacting via the SYK Hamiltonian [228]) with GQA due to purely quan-tum effects, can be fabricated in the laboratory utilizing superconducting materials. For instance, Dicke QBs can be realized with superconducting qubits coupled to an on-chip superconducting transmission line resonator (sin-gle photon cavity) [229]. On the other hand, on-chip im-14 

FIG. 5. Superconducting diode-based rectifiers (a-c) and quantum batteries (d). (a,b) Schematic circuit diagram of a full-wave SD-rectifier made of SD bridge (a) and full-wave rectification where polarity of output DC signal depends upon the orientation of magnetic field and/or magnetization (b). c An optimized VD made of ferromagnet-superconductor bilayers (center), where left panel shows the cross-sectional view with fringing fields, while right panel depicts the asymmetric vortex flow under out-of-plane magnetic field. The system hosts both field-induced type-A SDE arising from edge-asymmetry and the externally applied out-of-plane magnetic field ( Bz ) and field-free type-C SDE arising from intrinsic in-plane magnetization (MF M ). Right panel is reproduced with permission from Ref.[196]. (d) A quantum battery characterized by Hamiltonian 

H = H0 + λ(t)( HI − H 0). (Top) A parallel/collective quantum charger-battery setup in which the charger ( HA) and the battery ( HB ) are each typically modeled either as a two-level system (TLS) such as a qubit or as a quantum harmonic oscillator (QHO) in general, so that TLSs and QHOs act as the fundamental constituents of many-body quantum batteries. In a quantum charger-battery setup, where H0 = HA + HB , the quantum charger serves as an ancilla system (or as a classical-to-quantum transducer) that links the external classical power source to the quantum battery, which subsequently discharges into a quantum circuit. Here, the classical control parameter λ(t) is a step function that governs the cyclic unitary charging (and discharging or work extraction) processes: it switches on the interaction term HI while keeping H0 switched off during the charging interval τc; it then enables energy storage for a duration τs by turning off the interactions and switching on the battery Hamiltonian H0, thereby preserving the stored energy EB (τ ); finally, it initiates discharging over a time τd by switching the battery back off. (Bottom) Charging protocol of an SYK quantum battery (QB), where H0 consists of N spin-1/2 cells and HI denotes the SYK interaction. Bottom panel is reproduced with permission from ref. [197]. 

plementation of SYK QBs can be realized in topological superconductors, hosting a collection of randomly inter-acting Majorana fermions (zero modes), characterized by the SYK model [230, 231]. Similarly, nonlinear bosonic QBs that exhibit GQA [204], can be realized on super-conducting c-QED platforms [3] by employing nonlinear circuit elements, such as two superconducting LC res-onators coupled by a Josephson junction [232]. Interest-ingly, nonlinear QBs demonstrate that GQA can likewise be implemented in a conventional charger–battery con-figuration [213–215], typically akin to SYK QBs, where charger-mediated energy transfer in quantum batteries achieves its quantum bound through a nonlinear inter-action between the charger and the battery. In other words, incorporation of nonlinearity circumvents the con-straints inherent to Dicke QBs [226] and other analo-gous charger–battery architectures based on linear inter-actions [213–215]. However, despite this progress in the charger-battery configuration enabled by nonlinear interaction, SYK QBs retain a crucial device-level advantage in terms of scal-ability, as both the battery Hamiltonian H0 and the charging (interaction) Hamiltonian HI can be engineered within a single physical platform comprising an ensem-ble of interacting Majorana fermions [231]. In addition, a fundamental connection between SYK interactions and correlated phases in quantum materials and unconven-tional superconductors [202] could allow the exploration of their intrinsic quantum functionalities to expand the accessible parameter space. It makes SYK QBs a purely physics-defined device, mitigating the circuit complex-ity. These observations motivate further exploration of schemes that enable simultaneous control of nonlinearity and nonreciprocity in both nonlinear charger–battery ar-chitectures and SYK QBs. A promising approach is to build on the symmetry-driven engineering of SDE: JDE in the Josephson junction that couples two LC resonators in nonlinear bosonic QBs [204], and VDE in topological superconductor hybrids [231]. Another platform for QBs with device-level nonlinear-ity and nonreciprocity, along with the promise of scala-bility, can be a Josephson phase battery. In equilibrium, 15 a φ0-junction characterized by a finite anomalous phase 

φ0̸ = 0 , π in the ground state and a non-sinusoidal CPR 

IJ (φ) = Ic sin( φ + φ0), acts as a Josephson phase bat-tery that generates a constant phase bias φ = −φ0 in an open circuit configuration (i.e., IJ = 0), whereas it in-duces an anomalous Josephson current IAJ = Ic sin( φ0)in a closed circuit configuration (i.e., φ = 0). Such an anomalous Josephson junction or a Josephson phase bat-tery is only realizable when both time-reversal and inver-sion symmetries are broken simultaneously, i.e., φ0 and thus IAJ vanishes when either one of these two symme-tries is preserved. Under these symmetry constraints, a nonreciprocal 

φ0-junction can function as a nonreciprocal Josephson phase battery, provided that the finite anomalous effects (φ0̸ = 0 , π and IAJ ̸ = 0) are driven by a Lifshitz-type in-variant in the free energy and the corresponding CPR in-corporates higher-harmonic, non-sinusoidal terms. Such a nonreciprocal Josephson phase battery, which has so far attracted comparatively little attention, can be im-plemented through the broad range of mechanisms and approaches previously reported to break these symme-tries, induce anomalous Josephson effects, and generate diode behavior. For example, anomalous φ0-effects and the concept of a Josephson phase battery have recently been proposed for φ0-junctions in which ferromagnetic polarization of the magnetic impurities is effectively con-verted into a φ0 phase bias across the barrier [169, 225]. In a spin–orbit-coupled Al-InAs-Al φ0-junction [169], unpaired spins generated by surface defects in the InAs nanowire behave like ferromagnetic impurities and pro-vide a persistent exchange interaction when their po-larization is trained along a transverse direction. With a supercurrent flowing along the wire and the effective Rashba magnetic field directing perpendicular to the substrate plane, an anomalous φ0 phase bias emerges due to the non-vanishing Lifshitz-type invariant in the free energy, which takes the form [169, 233]: FL ≈

f (α, h )( ˆh × ˆϵ) · ˆv, where α denotes the SOI strength, ˆh

is the magnetization vector breaking time-reversal sym-metry, ˆϵ is the electric polarization vector responsible for inversion-symmetry breaking, and ˆv represents the su-perfluid velocity or, equivalently, the Josephson current (∼ ˆv). A non-zero scalar triple product likewise plays a fundamental role in nonreciprocal superconductivity and the JDE, as long as it gives rise to finite-momentum Cooper pairing and odd-in-q contributions to the free energy [36], which are linked to the higher-order non-sinusoidal terms in the CPR. This link between JDE and AJE [234] offers a more versatile platform to generate nonreciprocity in Josephson phase batteries. An SC-FM 1-spin flipper-FM 2-SC φ0-junction func-tions as a quantized Josephson phase battery [225], in which quantized values of the anomalous phase φ0 are stored in the ground state of the junction, and it also displays nonreciprocity in Josephson currents. As a re-sult, JDE emerges, and the device simultaneously func-tions as a Josephson phase battery and a Josephson diode. Here, a magnetic impurity/adatom located be-tween the two ferromagnetic layers acts as a spin-flipper. In this setup, both time-reversal and chiral symmetries are broken when the spin-flip probability is finite and the magnetizations of the two ferromagnetic layers are mis-aligned. The anomalous Josephson current vanishes and the Josephson current becomes reciprocal when either no spin-flipper is present and the spin-flip probability is zero, so that the exchange coupling between the elec-tron/hole spin and the magnetic impurity is absent and the Andreev bound states remain time-reversal symmet-ric ( ϵl(φ) = ϵl(−φ)), or magnetizations of the two fer-romagnetic layers are aligned, so that both time-reversal and chiral symmetries are preserved. The origin of nonre-ciprocity and SDE here is associated with magnetic chi-rality, which could be further harnessed by optimizing the magnetization gradients [235] or the inhomogeneous magnetic field profile [236], and stray fields from vortex trapping/removing [165]. These results suggest highly favorable prospects for the implementation of integrated quantum batteries based on superconducting diodes embedded within Josephson circuit architectures. Unlike dissipative reservoir engi-neering [206], symmetry-breaking mechanisms alone can give rise to nonreciprocity in Josephson phase batteries, thereby realizing nonreciprocal Josephson phase batter-ies. However, in the operating regime, typically IAJ 

remains significantly lower than the critical current Ic,severely restricting the practical exploitation of the non-reciprocal response of the Josephson phase battery. The nonreciprocal Josephson phase battery can be exploited either via nearly ideal JDE enabled by unidirectional su-perconductivity [50], or via intrinsic nonreciprocal super-conductivity, in which the superconducting traits remain direction-dependent well below the critical regime [237].  

> C. Write-In: control and memory

Switching mechanisms play a critical role in transistor functionality, memory devices, data storage systems, and signal amplification. Yet, at cryogenic temperatures, re-alizing efficient electrical switching in conventional semi-conductors and reciprocal superconductors remains achallenging task. This challenge motivates the explo-ration of alternative platforms to develop more transfor-mative algorithms and hardware, which could profoundly impact cryogenic quantum technologies. Beyond their exotic physical characteristics and quantum capabilities, SDs can also serve as highly effective superconducting switches, making them very promising for cryogenic elec-tronic and computing architectures [238, 239]. Here, we highlight the recently proposed SD-based designs for both transistor and memory devices. 16  

> 1. Superconducting diode transistor

The field effect transistor (FET) architecture is a cen-tral element in controlling and processing information, both in the classical workflow and in the quantum work-flow. In the classical workflow, the transistor embeds the central processing unit (CPU). In quantum-centric classical-quantum hybrid circuitry with a quantum pro-cessing unit (QPU), on the other hand, the transistor architecture is a key to both QPU and CPU, where the CPU acts as a control processor. The electrical manipulation of symmetry-controlled nonreciprocal transport has recently been demonstrated in Josephson diode based FETs. As an illustration, in Ge-based Josephson field-effect transistors (JoFET) integrated into an asymmetric SQUID configuration [157], each JoFET fabricated from a SiGe/Ge/SiGe het-erostructure functions as a Josephson diode and their CPRs display gate-tunable harmonic components. The principal harmonic corresponds to dissipationless charge-2e transport, while higher-order harmonics, second and third, respectively, reveal dissipationless charge-4e and charge-6e transport. The SQUID can be tuned from a nonreciprocal Josephson diode regime (with η = 27%) to a π-periodic reciprocal Josephson regime, where de-structive interference between odd harmonics leads to a parity-protected qubit phase, effectively governed by sin(2 ϕ) Josephson elements with a charge-4 e supercur-rent. It shows that gate-tunable SDE with tunable har-monic content offers Josephson devices that can act like a transistor for switching devices and control over super-conducting qubits. In addition to the superconducting-semiconducting-superconducting (Su-Sm-Su) hybrid junctions, utiliza-tion of unconventional quantum materials could further extends the avenues for exploring quantum phenomena and quantum functionalities for SD-based transistor ar-chitectures. For example, the Josephson transistor [65] and a Josephson diode sensor [66] made of chiral mag-nets (skyrmions and domain walls) and the nonrecipro-cal quantum neuronal transistor based on magnetic su-perconducting heterostructure [163] are prototypical ex-amples that display the coexistence of the chiral phe-nomenon in magnetic and superconducting hybrid struc-tures, leading to all-electrical current-driven switching. Josephson transistors [65] and sensors [66] based on chi-ral magnets could further motivate the exploration of SD-transistor functionalities based on exotic topological spin structures [240], in addition to skyrmions [241], for effi-cient write-off and read-out in unconventional nonrecip-rocal superconducting structures.  

> 2. Superconducting diode memory

Cryogenic memory technologies [242], interconnect-ing qubits and control processor, are critical for large-scale quantum computing architectures [243, 244]. With both a quantum substrate and a memory at nearly the same cryogenic temperature scale, even with non-integrated setup, the number of interconnects with a room-temperature CMOS control processor is reduced. In vortex-based SDs, a field-free switching of nonreciproc-ity, either by trapping and removing a vortex or by chang-ing the bias configuration, enables in-memory function-ality [165, 245]. The diode-with-memory can facilitate emerging in-memory data management [246] for super-conducting quantum technologies. The latest progress in spin-related superconducting devices for logic and mem-ory applications, in which the underlying mechanism could be categorized as the superconducting spin diode effect, has been reviewed in Ref. [166]. More recently, an electrically-controllable superconducting memory effect has also been reported in a multiphase bulk triplet super-conductor [167], where electrical control drives the sys-tem into and out of a magnetic-field-induced metastable state, thereby enabling switching between high and low critical currents. Moreover, with an intrinsic quantum control on the spin states of Cooper pairing, charge supercurrent trans-port, and tunable inductive CPR, different mechanisms for memories based on SDE can represent diverse po-tentials for scalable quantum computers. For example, electrical switching of JDE made of chiral magnets that host magnetic domains and skyrmions along the race-track [65] can guide the magnetic domain-wall racetrack memory [247]. Moreover, quantum-level tunability of JDs, with 1D topological nanowires and 2D planar weak links, respectively, can enable miniaturization of persis-tent Josephson phase-slip memories [248] and Josephson-junction-based superconductor random access memories [249]. In addition, due to zero resistance and tunable rec-tification, SDE can also play key functions in cryotron and cryogenic flip-flop memory technologies [250, 251], e.g., by controlling the rectification directions of SDs placed on different arms of flip-flop memory, allowing readout with an infinite on/off ratio due to zero resis-tance.  

> D. Read-Out: resonators and amplification

Accurate quantum state measurement, supported by high-fidelity amplification processes, lies at the heart of quantum computing for translating quantum operations and converting fragile quantum information into accessi-ble classical information processing. In this context, res-onators and amplifiers provide the essential interface be-tween quantum and classical workflow, thereby realizing the practical outcomes of quantum computation. This section highlights how the inherent nonlinearity of SDs could improve the performance of superconducting res-onators and superconducting parametric amplifiers, and how the intrinsic nonreciprocity of SDs could avoid the requirement of intervening isolators and circulators be-tween qubit-resonator and amplifier setup in the c-QED 17 architecture.  

> 1. Superconducting diode resonator

Superconducting resonators [252–254] are fundamen-tal elements in c-QED, providing a coherent electromag-netic environment for qubit readout [229], qubit-qubit coupling and entanglement generation, microwave de-tection [255], quantum-limited parametric amplification [186, 256], and coupling between qubit and qubit inter-faces in hybrid quantum circuits [2]. In their simplest form, either a compact lumped-element circuit or a dis-tributed transmission-line form [257], superconducting resonators are fabricated by applying lithographic pat-terning techniques to a superconducting thin film de-posited on an insulating substrate. These supercon-ducting resonator structures, LC resonator and copla-nar waveguide (CPW) resonator or transmission line res-onator, play the role of cavities in superconducting cir-cuits, and can be described by the same Hamiltonian that characterizes the dynamics of a cavity [2]: Hcavity =

P 

> k

ℏωk(a†

> k

ak + 1 /2) where ωk is the frequency of the 

kth cavity mode while a† 

> k

and ak are the corresponding creation and annihilation operators, respectively. The resonance frequency and quality factor, which quantifies energy losses, are the two key figures of merit that characterize the performance of superconducting resonators. The superconducting resonators, and the as-sociated applications in c-QED setup, can capitalize on a wide variety of superconducting materials and broad range of phenomena, including magnetoelectric and ki-netic inductance effect, nonlinear and nonreciprocal re-sponse, and dissipationless nonequilibrium dynamics. In addition to the exotic physical characteristics of super-conducting thin films and nanowires in CPW and LC structures, superconducting resonators can be embedded with Josephson inductive elements (Josephson junctions and SQUIDs) to incorporate Josephson dynamics for tun-ing the resonance frequency and optimizing the quality factor [258, 259]. These superconducting resonators behave as quantum harmonic oscillators, characterized by well-defined and inductively controlled resonance frequencies, with a wide tunability through a rich landscape of superconduct-ing phenomena. In the linear regime, superconduct-ing resonators are particularly well suited for quantum nondemolition/dispersive readout and quantum mem-ory/storage applications. On the other hand, nonlinear superconducting resonators with a substantially improv-ing measurement sensitivity enable quantum-enhanced signal detection, bifurcation-based readout, quantum-limited parametric amplification, and nonreciprocal cou-pling between qubits and qubit-interfaces. The non-linear effects in microwave superconducting resonators, and their impact on the resonance frequency and qual-ity factor, have been implemented via nonlinear kinetic inductance [260–262]. For instance, the quadratic depen-dence of the resonance frequency on the magnetic field applied perpendicular to the plane of the superconduct-ing thin film [260], and consequently on its fundamental and higher harmonics, is a manifestation of the nonlin-ear kinetic inductance of a superconducting device. The nonlinear current dependence of the kinetic inductance of superconducting thin films and nanowires is expected to be of even-order [252, 263, 264], just as in the case of JJs, 

Lk(I) = Lk(0)[1+( I/I ∗,2)2 +( I/I ∗,4)4 +.... ] for I ≪ I∗ or 

T ≪ Tc, where I∗,2,4 are related to the critical current Ic

and set the scale of quadratic and quartic order of nonlin-earity. The superconducting resonators, embedded with flux-controlled SQUIDs [265] or galvanically connected with a gate-controlled Josephson Junction [266], also ex-hibit dissipationless nonlinearity with suppressed Kerr nonlinearity. In the former system, which is also non-centrosymmetric, Kerr-free nonlinearity emerges due to a second harmonic generation [265]. With simultaneously broken time-reversal and inver-sion symmetries, higher harmonic terms make the super-conducting structure a superconducting diode and the superconducting resonator becomes a superconducting nonreciprocal resonator (SN-resonator) or a supercon-ducting diode resonator (SD-resonator) [175]. Although superconductors are intrinsically dissipationless, how-ever, several types of losses persist with the integration of superconducting resonators at the hardware level, in-cluding insertion loss, quasiparticle dynamics, microwave losses, and noise from two-level systems [252–254]. In this context, the SD-resonator plays a fundamental role to control the direction of noise flow. While the primary role of SD-resonator could be device-level nonreciproc-ity and thus a directional coupling of the resonator with qubit and qubit-interfaces, SD-resonator can also display several advantages in achieving a better temperature con-trol, efficient gate and flux controlled cooperativity, and quantum-limited parametric amplification. For instance, superconducting resonators made of conventional low-T c

superconducting materials, such as Al, Nb, and NbN, offer high quality factors. On the other hand, uncon-ventional high-T c superconducting materials open many new possibilities for superconducting resonators that can operate in extreme conditions [267–269]; at high work-ing temperature and under strong magnetic fields. The intrinsic microwave dissipation and the quality factor of high-T c superconducting resonators can be optimized via diode-controlled cooperativity. The resonators made of conventional superconductors face critical challenges to attain efficient gate-control and dissipationless nonlinear-ity. However, SD-resonators made of superconducting diode materials allow quantum-enhanced tunability via symmetry-determined nonreciprocity and nonlinearity in the supercurrent transport. Both CPW and LC resonators can be engineered with SDs, so that the corresponding SD-resonators can be re-alized with both bulk superconducting structures (i.e., superconducting thin films and nanowires) and Joseph-son junction elements, respectively. This flexibility in 18 the design allows SD-resonators to capitalize on whole host of superconducting traits in a diverse range of both conventional reciprocal and unconventional nonrecipro-cal superconducting materials. The symmetry breaking quantum effects, other than the fundamental physical characteristics of superconductivity, allow for a better quantum control over widely-tunable SD-resonators. In SD-resonators, with a diode-controlled interplay between linear and nonlinear regimes, SDE is a powerful resource that critically shapes resonator functionality for diverse applications in the c-QED architecture. For example, in a qubit-resonator system designed for readout and storage, SD-resonator can be tuned such that both Kerr-free and Kerr coefficients are simultaneously zero. On the other hand, for directional qubit transfer, qubit-qubit coupling and entanglement generation, and parametric amplifica-tion, the SD-resonator can be tuned such that only Kerr-free nonlinearity emerges in the parametric phase space.  

> 2. Superconducting diode amplifiers

An amplification setup with low-noise, broad-bandwidth, large-saturation power and high-gain is crucial for next generation technologies requiring the accurate detection of ultra-low-amplitude signals in the microwave regime, such as qubit readout [270], electron spin resonance detection [271, 272], electro-mechanical detection [273, 274], radio astronomy [275–277] and dark matter axion detection [278–281]. In quantum technol-ogy hardware, a state-of-the-art amplifier is characterized by the figures of merit implying quantum-limited noise, high fidelity, and single-shot quantum non-demolition readout. Achieving this requires a sophisticated engi-neering of readout hardware and the amplifier setup, co-locating with cryogenic qubit circuitry, such that insertion loss is removed to near quantum-limit and a signal-to-noise ratio sufficiently large for high-fidelity single-shot readout is achieved. These strict constraints on figures of merit and their implementation exclude standard solid-state amplifiers, which typically dissipate several milliwatts of power while amplifying the output signal from the readout resonator at the millikelvin stage. In superconducting quantum computing, where the qubit and resonator readout are implemented through su-perconducting circuits, superconducting parametric am-plifiers made with Josephson junctions have assumed a fundamental role in the superconducting qubit measure-ment. The most popular classes, typically based on nega-tive resistance reflection or traveling-wave architectures, are known as Josephson parametric amplifiers (JPAs) [282] and Josephson traveling-wave parametric amplifiers (JTWPAs) [283], respectively. Both JPAs [186, 284, 285] and JTWPAs [286] can be quantum limited, where only a minimum amount of noise, allowed by the principles of quantum mechanics [287, 288], is added by the amplifi-cation process. However, despite offering high gain and ultra-low noise, both JPAs and JTWAs still face critical challenges in terms of multiplexed qubit readout, scala-bility, and isolation. Although standing-wave JPAs built from nonlinear resonators are compact and leave a small footprint on a quantum processor, narrow-bandwidth (∼MHz) and low saturation power, which are undesir-able for quantum applications with multiplexed qubit readout and large power-handling capability, make JPAs suitable only for small-scale quantum setups. In con-trast, although JTWPAs provide high-saturation power and broad-bandwidth ( ∼GHz), offering multi-qubit mul-tiplexed readout setup [286, 289], they incorporate a long chain of Josephson junctions —typically exceeding 10 3 el-ements —which results in a large on-chip footprint and poses significant challenges for large-scale high-yield fab-rication. In addition, a high-fidelity qubit transfer requires a strong isolation between the qubit–resonator readout sys-tem and the amplification setup. The existing JPAs are intrinsically non-directional, they produce a gain in re-flection mode, and therefore require circulators at the input to enforce directionality; separate outgoing am-plified signals from their incoming counterparts, route the amplified signal toward output detection, and isolate the qubit–resonator circuit from the amplified signal and back-propagating noise. In contrast, JTWPAs are inher-ently directional because of their traveling-wave architec-ture, allowing forward-mode amplification in the direc-tion of the pump propagation, without the need for in-tervening circulators to separate incoming and outgoing signals. However, a standard setup for JTWPAs still re-quires isolators to ensure reverse isolation, and thus does not completely eliminate the need for non-reciprocal com-ponents. In addition to imposing nonreciprocity through the intervening elements, resonant-JPAs and JTWPAs also face different challenges in terms of controlling non-linearity in the Josephson junctions [282, 283], which sets practical limits on gain, bandwidth, and power handling. The integration of superconducting diodes can sidestep many of these challenges faced by JPAs and TWPAs, including inherent control over directionality, coherent control over operating frequency range and bandwidth, and their intertwining with the operating temperature. These characteristics are intertwined with the quantum-controlled nonreciprocity and nonlinearity in the super-conducting diodes, which can be widely tuned through both intrinsic quantum geometry and the extrinsic geo-metric structure of the device. The SDE can be incor-porated at the device level, either by turning Joseph-son junctions into Josephson junction diodes so that Josephson elements become intrinsically directional or by integrating superconducting diodes as intervening non-linear nonreciprocal elements in the Josephson junc-tion based qubit readout circuits. The superconducting diode-controlled realization of parametric amplifiers that simultaneously achieve near–quantum-limited noise per-formance, high gain, broad bandwidth, and large satura-tion power – while exhibiting a truly directional control 19 combined with backward-signal attenuation – would rep-resent a significant breakthrough in qubit readout c-QED and overall quantum technology hardware. Unlike power management, qubit control, and memory applications, the role of SDE in parametric amplification has not yet been explored, and a comprehensive study is still awaited. However, several features of the super-conducting diode make it attractive for integration with parametric amplifiers, where the diode-controlled traits could solve several challenges through diode-controlled parametrization. For example, nonreciprocal supercon-ductivity can be incorporated into Josephson junctions, where nonlinearity can be controlled well below the crit-ical temperature I0, rather than reaching the depair-ing limit, and thus a tradeoff between Josephson induc-tance, bandwidth, gain, and signal power can be ac-quired. The superconducting diode-controlled qubit an-harmonicity via rectification efficiency [174] and a co-herent nonreciprocal qubit-qubit inductive coupling via flux bias [175] shows that integration of SDE offers a promising route to realize a scalable circuit scheme of resonant-JPAs by optimizing the cavity architecture where superconducting diode-controlled anharmonicity, introduced by the nonlinear Josephson inductance, can be modulated through a wide-tunability of superconduct-ing diode response. However, it is still open to address how controlling current-dependent and magnetic-flux-dependent nonlinear inductance of a Josephson junction, combined with gain-bandwidth constraint and the satu-ration power, could help in chasing a multi-qubit setup with compact superconducting-diode controlled JPAs. On the other hand, a recently proposed setup for the traveling-wave parametric amplifier isolator (TWPAI), though with diplexers, [290] suggests that the inherent isolation capabilities of TWPAI can eliminate the need for a commercial isolator. The SDE-driven inherent isola-tion could simplify the amplification setup even further. Interestingly, the second-harmonic contributions to the current-phase relation (Josephson current) affect the gain profile of a JTWPA, and the non-sinusoidal contribution enhances amplification without dispersion engineering [291]. It further strengthens the potential role of intrinsic SDE in the amplification setup, which is solely based on the non-sinusoidal contribution to the CPR [234]. More importantly, SDE may be employed for enhancing the first-stage amplification within traveling-wave architec-ture. Although TWPAs rely on the designing and man-ufacturing of a long amplification chain, the overall gain and noise performance is predominantly determined by the characteristics of the first amplifier in the chain [292], which establishes the fundamental performance floor that constrains all subsequent amplifier stages. In this con-text, nonreciprocal and nonlinear superconducting traits at this first stage are of paramount importance to achieve quantum-enhanced gain and quantum-limited noise. In this direction, the superconducting diode-controlled Fourier engineering of Josephson energy-phase relations (EPRs) [58] and dissipationless nonlinearity in Josephson diodes made of quantum materials open a new window for scalable amplification setup in the c-QED architecture [194].  

> 3. Field-free and Kerr-free nonlinearity

Kerr-free third-order nonlinearity, and its interplay with fourth-order Kerr nonlinearity, has been reported in gate- and flux-tunable asymmetric SQUID-based JDs and magnetization-determined single-junction JDs [194]. The diode behavior in these nonreciprocal Josephson dipole (NJD) elements is characterized by the higher har-monics in CPR, which originate because of simultane-ous breaking of time-reversal and inversion symmetries. In the interferometer setup, gate-control arises from the gate-tunability of the Andreev bound state (ABS) trans-mission in the junction. Compared to JRM [186–188] and SNAIL [189–192], as well as superconducting diode-based Fourier engineering of Josephson EPRs in an array of Josephson junctions [58, 293], gate- and flux-controlled Kerr-free nonlinearity in the SQUID setup promise cru-cial benefits in terms of scalability and control. Apart from its simplicity in terms of circuit engineering, gate-voltage tunability permits efficient electrical control in-stead of magnetic fluxes. In addition, the resonance fre-quency ωr is also gate-tunable in the dissipationless non-linear regime, where third-order nonlinearity is realizable with vanishing Kerr coefficient ( K = 0). Compared to circuits where multiple flux-bias lines are required for fre-quency tunability [192], frequency-tunable Kerr-free non-linearity in the quantum material SQUID setup can be realized through a single flux-bias. The gate-tunability of dissipationless third-order nonlinearity ( g3), the Kerr coefficient ( K) characterizing fourth-order nonlinearity, the resonance frequency ( ωr ), and the superconducting diode efficiency ( η) of SQUID-based NJD are shown in Figure 6. The Kerr-free regime ( K = 0) can be tuned by triplet ( τ1, τ 2, ϕ ) where τ1,2 is the gate-controlled asym-metric transmission of ABSs and ϕ = Φ /ϕ 0 is the flux-controlled phase difference. Similarly, a magnetization-determined quadruplet (g3, K, ω r , η ) is also realizable in single-junction JDs with a magnetic weak-link [194]. In the single-junction NJD, where two transversal conduction channels ensure the presence of second-harmonic terms in the CPR, field-free third-order nonlinearity arises from the interplay of Rashba SOI and intrinsic magnetization, following the exact symmetry-constraints required for the intrinsic SDE. As a result, the quadruplet ( g3, K, ω r , η ) should be tunable via both magnetization and Rashba SOI, as well as their interplay, allowing for a whole host of intrinsic quantum functionalities, broadly characterized by Chern magnetism [294–301], for wide-tunability of dissipation-less nonlinearity. In accordance with the symmetry-constraint JDE, where sign reversal of nonreciprocity is a key characteristic, Kerr-free nonlinearity also changes its sign with gate-voltage, magnetic flux and magnetization. 20                                               

> FIG. 6. Dissipationless nonlinearity, Kerr effect, and resonator frequency in nonreciprocal Josephson dipoles (SQUID). (i) Third-order nonlinearity g3/g 3,0normalized by g3,0≡c2φ3
> ZP F /6ℏ(a) and Kerr coefficient K/K 0normalized by
> K0≡c2φ4
> ZP F /2ℏ(b) as function of magnetic flux (Φ) and transmission ( τ1). At the green dot, with g3= 0 and K= 0, Josephson potential U(φ) remains mirror symmetric across φ= 0, whereas U(φ) become asymmetric at the red dot ( g3̸= 0 , K = 0) and at the blue dot ( g3̸= 0 , K ̸= 0). (ii) Resonator frequency ωr/ω r, 0, normalized with ωr, 0=p∆/C/ϕ 0, as a function of Φ and
> τ1with τ2= 0 .8 (a) and with different values of τ2along the K(Φ( τ1), τ 1) = 0 arc (b). cThird-order nonlinearity (top row), Kerr coefficient (center row), and diode efficiency (bottom row) as a function of Φ and τ1, with different values of transmission
> τ2. Figure is reproduced with permission from ref. [194]
> V. PARAMETRIC FRAMEWORK: QUANTUM LEAP

In hybrid quantum technology architectures, which in-tegrate the processing of both bits and qubits, supercon-ducting technologies offer a fully superconducting envi-ronment to be integrated into future quantum comput-ing, communication, and sensing systems. Although con-ventional superconductors promise dissipationless trans-port with a zero-resistance, the reciprocity in conven-tional superconducting components causes energy loss and decoherence. However, nonreciprocal superconduc-tivity offers a potential platform to design superconduct-ing circuitry that can perform scalable and high-fidelity operations by mitigating backscattering and noise. In addition, intrinsic nonreciprocity of superconductors sim-plifies quantum circuitry or circuit topology by avoiding the complicated architectures otherwise required to con-trol directionality. For example, Josephson inductance 

L(I) = L0 +L′I +L′′ I2/2 is a convenient probe for quan-tifying asymmetry in the CPR. A non-zero L′ ≡ ∂I L|I=0 

is crucial in breaking CPR symmetry and leading to the nonreciprocity of supercurrent by inducing higher har-monics [32]. The non-zero L′ is also a key element for modeling non-reciprocal superconducting devices [302]. However, with conventional reciprocal superconducting components, an effective L′̸ = 0 could only be engineered through complex superconducting circuitry [189, 303]. On the other hand, due to the symmetry-constrained nonreciprocal supercurrent, a non-zero L′ is an intrinsic feature of a single Josephson junction [304]. With this device-level advantage, the SD-based quan-tum devices show that the degrees of freedom of SDs and their quantum-level tunability, while incorporating intrinsic quantum geometric effects along with extrin-sic structural optimization, promise a novel parametric framework for scalable superconducting quantum tech-nology hardware. These SD parameters act as new de-grees of freedom to simultaneously control qubit and qubit interfaces, along with scalable interface coupling through inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciproc-ity at the device level. In the c-QED architecture, the physics and applica-tions of Josephson junctions [18, 305–307] play a fun-damental role in quantum engineering of superconduct-ing qubit circuits and interfaces [270], spanning from the Josephson phase battery, the transmon qubit and its con-trol, noise mitigation and readout resonators, and am-plification. For a scalable quantum technology architec-ture, Kerr-free nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity are the two of the most important features desired by Josephson junctions. In what follows, we shall discuss the role of JDE that not only brings Kerr-free nonlin-21 earity and intrinsic nonreciprocity in a single Josephson junction by itself, and thus inherently in superconducting qubit and qubit-interfaces, but also JDE-based devices that could be integrated into nonreciprocal quantum cir-cuitry as an intervening element. First, unlike linear inductors and the corresponding passive LC resonator, the nonlinearity of the Josephson inductance allows an active anharmonic quantum oscil-lator, where low-energy non-degenerate qubit states are energetically spaced from the higher energy levels. The Josephson equations [308], I = I0 sin φ and V = Φ0

> 2πdφ dt

where Φ 0 = h/ 2e is the magnetic flux quantum, re-late the current and voltage to a phase difference φ

and its time derivative, respectively, across the junc-tion and to the critical current ( I0). These Josephson equations imply that the Josephson junctions act like a non-linear inductor with current-dependent inductance, 

LJ (I) = LJ0√1−(I/I 0)2 , that diverges as the current reaches the critical current, which depends on the microscopic superconducting gap energy along with the macroscopic barrier thickness. The nonlinear Josephson inductance can be made magnetic-flux-dependent in a dc-biased su-perconducting quantum interference device (SQUID), a superconducting circuit made of two Josephson two junc-tions in a ring configuration. The magnetic flux quanti-zation constraint on the superconducting ring, Φ = nΦ0,makes the net inductance of SQUID a periodic function of flux, LSQ (I, Φ) = LJ (I)2 cos(Φ /Φ0) . This nonlinearity and its directional tunability (nonreciprocity) are at the core of practical superconducting c-QED, making Josephson junctions the basic building blocks in cryogenic supercon-ducting quantum technology hardware, playing a diverse role for superconducting qubits, phase battery, switching and memory devices, and parametric amplifiers. However, conventional JJ with sinusoidal CPR is Kerr-type nonlinear (fourth-order) and the transmission re-mains reciprocal. On the other hand, when both time-reversal symmetry and inversion symmetry are broken, an anomalous Josephson current with non-sinusoidal CPR could give rise to third-order nonlinearity while minimizing the Kerr effect, but the transmission still re-mains reciprocal in the single-channel Josephson junction [309]. Interestingly, when both time-reversal symmetry and inversion symmetry are broken and higher order har-monic terms are present in the CPR, a nonreciprocal Josephson diode (NJD) [194] can simultaneously exhibit both Kerr-free (pure ϕ3) nonlinearity and nonreciprocity. It shows the critical importance of quantum ma-terial Josephson diodes [194]. Apart from several unique characteristics and physics-imposed functionali-ties, one of the main features of Josephson junctions is to bring semiconducting-superconducting hybrids for efficient electric-field control through the semiconduct-ing weak link while maintaining the coherence of super-conducting states. However, the observation of SDE in Josephson junctions as well as in junction-free supercon-ducting materials provides an alternative route for de-signing superconducting quantum devices based on bulk superconductors and Josephson constrictions, without requiring semiconducting hybrids. In addition, Joseph-son junctions made with quantum materials that exhibit nontrivial electronic and magnetic chirality could replace conventional semiconductor based Josephson junctions and offer all-electrical control over Josephson circuitry. The integration of SD not only controls the nonlinear-ity and directionality at the device level, but also broad-ens the parameter space of c-QED environment integrat-ing qubit and qubit-interfaces, which allows for an in-trinsic quantum control and wider tunability. This is attributed to the current-dependent and flux-dependent nonlinearity in the Josephson kinetic inductance, which allows rectification efficiency and non-local phase as SD-determined degrees of freedom to control and tune the SD-integrated C-QED setup. As a proof of concept, the microscopic origin of the SD-controlled parametric space can be elucidated using the effective Hamiltonian for an SD-shunted transmon qubit chain and for a two-qubit quantum circuit inductively coupled to an SD-resonator. The SD-determined control over parametric space characterizing the c-QED for qubit and qubit-interfaces can be understood from the nonlinear and nonrecip-rocal dynamics of Josephson elements. The canonical c-QED Hamiltonian for SD (JD here) shunted to the capacitor reads H = HC + HU + HJ , where HQ =

HC + HU = 4 EC (ˆ n − ng )2 + EJ F ( ˆ φ) is the transmon Hamiltonian [3, 18] and HJ is the interaction between them. Here EC = e2/(2 C) is the charging (capacitative) energy with C the relevant circuit capacitance and ng

a gate-induced charge offset, and EJ = Φ 0IJ /2π is the Josephson (inductive) energy with Φ 0 = h/ 2e the flux quantum and IJ the Josephson current. The phase func-tion F (φ) = R f (φ)dφ connects the Josephson energy term with the current-phase relation (CPR) [139, 174], 

I(ϕ) = IJ f (φ) = IJ ddφ F (φ). The higher harmonic terms, other than sin φ in f (φ) and cos φ in F (φ), are the source of inherent odd-order nonlinearity and intrinsic nonre-ciprocity in the Josephson elements, a single-junction [174, 194] or SQUID [175, 194], integrated in the c-QED architecture. The parametric role of SD can be obtained by trans-forming the canonical c-QED Hamiltonian to bosonic op-erators or qubit operators, that is, by permitting the quantization of circuit variables ( φ, n ) and expanding the Hamiltonian around the global minimum of Joseph-son potential energy landscape. The canonically conju-gated phase and number operators, with [ ˆ φ, ˆn] = i and ∆ϕ∆n ≥ 1/2, can be expressed in terms of bosonic lad-der operators for creation and annihilation of the Cooper pair as ˆφ = φzpf (ˆ a + ˆ a†) and ˆ n = −in zpf (ˆ a − ˆa†) = 

−i(1 /2φzpf )(ˆ a − ˆa†), where ϕzpf = (2 EC /E J )1/4 is zero-point fluctuations (zpf) of the superconducting phase and 

ϕzpf nzpf = 1 /2. This uncertainty between phase and number operators and the quantization of energy land-scape ( EJ − EC ) set the quantum mechanical constraints on the transmon qubit as a weakly anharmonic quantum 22 oscillator [3, 18]; in the transmon regime EJ /E C ≫ 1, where the Josephson tunneling dominates ( IJ ∝ EJ )while the zpf in the superconducting phase are minimized (φzpf ≪ 1), the anharmonicity is constrained by the in-sensitivity of energy levels to the zpf in charge nzpf . That is, the minimal uncertainty in the well-defined phase value ⟨ ˆφ⟩, with a desirable protection from the suppressed charge noise, comes at the expense of reduced anhar-monicity. In this context, a major challenge is a dissipa-tive Kerr effect originating from the even-order nonlin-earity. In the presence of non-sinusoidal higher harmonics that allow odd-order nonlinearity, a small ZPF ϕzpf permits the Taylor expansion of the Josephson potential around its global minimum φmin and the Taylor expand trans-mon Hamiltonian can be expressed as 

H = 4 EC (ˆ n − ng )2 + X

> m

cm(η, Φ, τ, ω )

m! (φ − φmin )m (1) where cm = ∂mφ U |φmin are Taylor coefficients, that can be tuned with flux-bias parameters, gate-driven trans-mission, frequency or effective inductance and capaci-tance, and quantum-determined diode efficiency to con-trol an interplay between odd-order and even-order non-linear effects. For instance, the second-order Taylor co-efficient of U (φ), c2 → EJ , characterizes the harmonic transmon with ϕzpf = 1 /2nzpf = (2 EC /c 2)1/4, Joseph-son inductance L−1 = ϕ−20 c2, and resonance frequency 

ωr = 1 /√LC = p8Ecc2/ℏ2. The third-order Taylor coefficient c3 → g3 characterizes the diode-determined third-order nonlinearity, that emerges due to the bro-ken time-reversal symmetry, U (−Φ) ̸ = U (Φ), while the Taylor coefficient of fourth-order term φ4 determines the Kerr coefficient K.In this direction, SDE with higher harmonics is re-quired to tune and manipulate both weak anharmonic-ity and directionality via odd-order dissipationless non-linearity. In SD-integrated c-QED setup, SDE can be parametrized by the figures of merit triplets ( η, ϕ, ω ) and (( g3, K, ω r ). The superconducting diode efficiency ( η), operational frequency (of diode ( ω) as well as diode-controlled resonance frequency ( ωr )), and dissipationless nonlinearity, including third-order Kerr-free nonlinearity (g3) and its interplay with the fourth-order Kerr coeffi-cient ( K), can be controlled through external gate and flux knobs ( VG, Φb) as well as intrinsic quantum func-tionalities associated with spin, orbital and valley de-grees of freedom. Such an SD-integrated c-QED setup demonstrates the enormous potential of superconducting diodes, making the spectrum of the effective potential-energy landscape rich and widely tunable with respect to the efficiency η of SDE and the phase difference 

φ = ϕL − ϕR introduced by SDE. In a recent study on controlling the qubit anhar-monicity and directional transport fidelity of transmon qubit chain circuits integrating SD [174], nonlinearity and nonreciprocity are introduced by F (φ) = − cos( φ −

arcsin η) + ηφ , corresponding to a skew-symmetric CPR with f (φ) = sin( φ−arcsin η)+ η, where non-zero anoma-lous phase is determined by the diode efficiency η. For the transmon qubit chain circuit with integrated super-conducting diodes, as shown in Figure 4 (a), the effective qubit Hamiltonian in the truncated space reads [174] ˆH ≃ 4EC (ˆ n − ng )2

+ EJ

 12! 

p1 − η2φ2 + 13! ηφ 3 − 14! 

p1 − η2φ4

 (2) With any given EJ /E C ratio that characterizes the qubit circuit, an operational regime can be identified through a precise tuning of η that supports exactly two-level qubit states inside the central potential well. Although a larger 

η would be required for a larger EJ /E C ratio, an in-termediate value of η, even well below the ideal case (η → 100%), could be practically optimal to stabilize the two-level system configuration and preserve the qubit an-harmonicity, which guaranties high transport fidelity by effectively suppressing the backward flow of noise. The anharmonicity in superconducting diodes, demon-strated to improve the operation of transmon qubits through rectification-controlled phase difference [174], may also be useful for optimizing other superconducting qubits through the precise tuning of inductive parameters (L ≃ LJ0 for the flux qubits) or bias currents ( I → I0 for the phase qubits). The rectifying properties of SDE, for both the current-voltage characteristics in resistive mea-surements and the current-phase relations in inductive measurements, broaden the parametric space and allow a large tunability of the key parameters that determine the anharmonicity in the potential-energy landscape of var-ious superconducting qubits. This makes superconduct-ing diodes a key element in qubit circuits, not only be-cause they overcome the usual reduction in qubit anhar-monicity by transforming the qubit’s properties, but also because they can improve both coherence time and gate fidelity by introducing controlled anharmonicity within superconducting diodes, which are essential for scalable and noise-resilient quantum operations. Such an interplay between odd-order and even-order nonlinear contributions, as depicted in qubit Hamilto-nian (2), is an inherent characteristic of SD [194]. SDE promises third-order Kerr-free nonlinearity both in a single-junction JD heterostructure and in an interfer-ometer setup of SQUID-based JDs [194]. In SQUID-based SD, JDE can be controlled by external magnetic bias flux (Φ b) [51] and local gate-voltages [194]. The asymmetric SQUID is characterized by the potential 

U (φ) = U1(φ) + U2(φ − Φ/ϕ 0), corresponding to a flux-determined CPR I(φ) = I1(φ) + I2(φ − Φ/ϕ 0), where 

ϕ0 = ℏ/2e = Φ 0/2π is the reduced flux quantum and Φ is an external magnetic flux pierced through the area between the two JJs. Here U1,2 and I1,2, respectively, are the Josephson potentials and corresponding CPRs in the lth junction ( l = 1 , 2). The origin of the JDE in such an interferometer setup is associated with non-vanishing higher harmonic contributions in the CPRs, 23 

Il(φ) = I(1)  

> l

sin φ + I(2)  

> l

sin 2 φ + .... and correspondingly 

Ul(φ) = −U (1)  

> l

cos φ−U (2)  

> l

cos 2 φ+.... , where amplitudes 

I(m) 

> l

and U (m) 

> l

represent contributions from the mth har-monic in the lth JJ. The JDE with a skew-symmetric CPR, originated from a superposition of sinusoidal and non-sinusoidal harmonics, requires (i) Φ /ϕ 0̸ = nπ (n ∈

integer) which breaks time-reversal symmetry and (ii) 

I(m)1̸ = I(m)2 which break inversion symmetry. The sec-ond condition can be met by inducing asymmetry in the junctions transmission, such that the JDE arises from phase-dependent destructive (for −π < φ < 0) and con-structive (for 0 < φ < π ) quantum interference between low and high transmission of the ABSs in the two junc-tions. In the short-junction limit, CPR and An-dreev levels emerging within the superconduct-ing gap ∆, which mediate the supercurrent, take the form [51, 310] I(φ) = (e∆2τl/2ℏ)f (φ)where f (φ) = sin( φ)Tanh[ εl(φ)/2kB T ]/ε l(φ) and 

εl(φ) = ∆

q

1 − τl sin 2(φ/ 2). Here τl is the gate-tunable ABSs transmission in the lth junction, and the ground-state EPRs of the ABSs are given by 

Ul(φ) = −εl(φ). A different transmission in the junc-tions, τ1̸ = τ2, ensures that I(φ)̸ = −I(−φ + Φ /ϕ 0)implying I+ 

> c

= max φI(φ)̸ = min φI(φ) = I− 

> c

. However, if both junctions transmission are small, τl ≪ 1, JDE vanishes because EPR Ul(φ) is dominated by the first sinusoidal harmonic in the CPR, Il(φ) ∝ sin φ and 

Ul(φ) ∝ − cos φ. Together with τ1̸ = τ2, if the junction transmission is large, τl ≲ 1, in one of the two JJs at least, then the total CPR acquires higher harmonic content and the JDE is guaranteed. With a high junction transmission τl ≲ 1 that al-lows odd-order contributions from higher harmonics and a small ZPF ϕzpf that permits the Taylor expansion of the Josephson potential around its global minimum 

φmin , the canonical Hamiltonian for SQUID shunted to capacitor can be expressed in terms of bosonic low-ing and raising operators as [190, 194] ˆH = ℏωr a†a +P 

> m≥3

ℏgm(ˆ a + ˆ a†)m where Kerr-free nonlinearity is ex-pressed in terms of the third-order Taylor coefficient of 

U (φ) as ℏg3 = ( c3/6) φ3 

> zpf

and the fourth-order Kerr term is computed as ℏK = 1 /2( c4 − 5c23/3c2)φ4 

> zpf

. The Taylor expanded transmon Hamiltonian up to the fourth order can be expressed as [190, 194] ˆH = ℏωr a†a+ c3

6 φ3 

> zpf

(ˆ a+ˆ a†)3+ 12



c4 − 5c23

3c2



φ4 

> zpf

(ˆ a+ˆ a†)4

(3) As shown in Figure 6, non-vanishing g3̸ = 0 is realized when both time-reversal and inversion symmetries are broken (Φ /ϕ 0̸ = nπ and τ1̸ = τ2) but g3 vanishes when either time-reversal symmetry or inversion symmetry is restored (Φ /ϕ 0 = nπ or τ1 = τ2). The symmetry-driven gate- and flux-tunable Kerr-free nonlinearity g3̸ = 0 is consistent with the underlying symmetry constraints in JDE. Moreover, within a finite regime of (Φ , τ 1) phase di-agram where the third-order nonlinearity remains finite 

g3̸ = 0, the Kerr coefficient vanishes along a closed con-tour in the (Φ , τ 1) phase diagram, with a gate-tunable resonator frequency along the K = 0 arc. Interestingly, this Kerr-free trajectory, and the associated tunability of the resonator frequency ωr = 1 √LC = ωr, 0

√c2 where 

ωr, 0 ≡ (1 /ϕ 0)p∆/C , can be further optimized by the second local electrostatic gate that controls transmission 

τ2, thereby enabling in situ control of the Kerr-free oper-ating regime. Similar analysis persists for Kerr-free and field-free third-order nonlinearity in the single-junction setup [194]. Sharing common origin and symmetry constraints, the strength of g3 and JDE efficiency η show congruent be-havior in the phase diagram of (Φ , τ 1), their strength in-creases with increasing transmission of both junctions si-multaneously, while keeping the constraint τ1̸ = τ2. How-ever, Kerr-free nonlinearity ( K = 0) is realized only at low diode efficiency ( η < 10%) around the time-reversal symmetry-restoring line Φ /ϕ 0 = 0 .5 in the interferom-eter setup and η < 20% in the single-junction setup. This analysis is also qualitatively persistent with the SD-integrated qubit chain circuit, where g3 ∝ η and 

K ∝ p1 − η2 such that ( g3, K ) → (0 , 1) when η → 0and ( g3, K ) → (1 , 0) when η → 1. In the SD-integrated c-QED setup, where a NJD shunted to a capacitor re-mains within the two-state working regime EJ /E C ≫ 1, an optimized parameterization space ( c2, c 3, c 4) is highly required such that even a large shunting capacitance makes zero point fluctuations (zpf) of the superconduct-ing phase small, ϕzpf = (2 EC /E J )1/4 ≪ 1. In this aspect. an interplay between dissipationless nonlinear-ity and nonreciprocity reiterates the need for quantum-controlled SDs with a widely tuneable efficiency and fre-quency. The SQUID-based SD nonreciprocity, arising from an intrinsic third-order nonlinearity, has recently been intro-duced to demonstrate the nonreciprocal qubit dynamics; directional qubit-qubit coupling and entanglement trans-fer [175]. In close analogy to efficiency-controlled qubit dynamics enabled by single-junction JDs integrated in the qubit chain circuit [174], SDE permits flux-controlled phase difference in the SQUID-based SD embedded in the resonator structure. Such SQUID-based SD-resonator al-lows SD-determined third-order nonlinearity and simul-taneously supports the directional qubit dynamics, the directionality being passively mediated through nonre-ciprocal qubit-resonator coupling. A multi-qubit sys-tem with an inductive coupling to a resonator structure [183, 184, 311], Hi,j ∝ ˆφi ˆφj → ˆaiˆa† 

> j

+ ˆ a† 

> i

ˆaj , can be ex-pressed in leading order qubit operators by projecting on the two lowest transmon states as [175] 

H = X

> i

ωi

2 σiz + X

> i,j

Je i tan −1 

> Jnr ij Jrij
> 

(σi

> −

σj 

> +

+ σi

> +

σj

> −

) (4) where σix,y,z and σi 

> ±

= σix ± iσ iy are Pauli operators and 

ωi is the excitation energy of the qubit at port i ∈ { 1, 2}.24 The interaction Ji,j = Jrij + iJ nr ij = Je iϕ ij couples the nearest-neighbor qubits i and j. The SD-resonator passively induces a nonreciprocal exchange coupling between the nearest-neighbor qubit modes through a direction-dependent non-local phase ϕij = −ϕji = φ =tan −1(Jnr ij /J rij ). The sign of the non-local phase ϕij 

can be controlled by external flux bias (Φ b), where Jnr ij 

changes sign with Φ b. With this analysis at hand, where non-vanishing Jnr ij originates from third-order nonlinear-ity, it is natural to ask how Jnr ij correlates with the diode efficiency in a Kerr-free regime of parameter space. In the SQUID-based NJD, the dissipationless Kerr-free third-order nonlinearity can be parametrized through the tunability of even-order nonlinearities as 

c3 = ±

r 35 c2c4 (5) This Kerr-free limit can be reached by varying induc-tive parameters c2 = ϕ0/L , or the resonance frequency and charging energy as c2 = ℏ2ω2 

> r

/8Ec, through a single flux-bias parameter. The flux-dependence, and in situ flux-tunability, of both odd order and even order non-linearities is inherited from the EPR: while even-order nonlinearities are present even for symmetric EPR, odd-order nonlinearities emerge from the simultaneous break-ing of time-reversal and inversion symmetries. As a re-sult, quantum materials provide quantum-limited para-metric framework where parameter space is comprised of both external stimuli such as gate voltage and intrin-sic quantum functionalities such as SOI, orbital effects, and nontrivial Berry effects. In other words, instead of engineering the nonlinearities by varying the physical de-sign of the device [190], intrinsic quantum functionalities in the NJDs promise tunability of inherent nonlinearity. This aspect opens a new avenue to explore explicit quan-tum mechanization to engineer inherent nonlinearity over multiple orders of magnitude in NJD made of quantum materials. These prototypical examples depicting the control over qubit anharmonicity, directional transfer of qubits, non-reciprocal qubit-qubit coupling and entanglement genera-tion, which originates from the SD nonreciprocity emerg-ing as a third order nonlinearity, promise immense po-tential of SDs in the c-QED setup. In the c-QED archi-tecture with a gate-tunable magnetic NJDs [194] where both time-reversal and inversion symmetries are simul-taneously broken, nonreciprocity and third-order non-linearity can be attained in the absence of an external magnetic field and a Kerr-effect. This automatically ex-tends the potential role of superconducting diodes for the realization of field-free and Kerr-free nonreciprocal qubit dynamics, resonator coupling, and three-wave mix-ing Josephson parametric amplification. In addition, a single-junction Josephson element does not necessitate the use of complicated circuitry. The inherent presence of field-free and Kerr-free dissipationless nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity in NJDs made of quantum mate-rials inspires future research to explore the integration of superconducting diodes in scalable quantum technology hardware.  

> VI. EPILOGUE: FUTURE PERSPECTIVE

The quantum landscape of SDs directly addresses the pressing needs at cryogenic temperature to enable on-chip integration of hybrid quantum technology hardware with temperature-matched classical and quantum work-flows. Nevertheless, superconducting electronics still lack SD that is readily available for cryogenic technologies. The existing SDs face critical challenges in terms of per-formance and translation, whereas proposals for quantum circuits with SD-enabled quantum information process-ing remain in an early development stage. The current SD proposals (i) do not enable an optimized SDE where both intrinsic and extrinsic SDE mechanisms can coex-ist, (ii) do not allow noise-resilient signal processing in the circuit environment and remain dissipative due to normal state single-electron current in the revere direction, and (iii) do not exhibit a simultaneous quantum-level tunabil-ity of all three critical attributes required for control and scalability in cryogenic electronic and quantum technolo-gies, that is, a wide Kerr-free dissipationless nonlinear regime in parameter space, large rectification efficiency, and broad operational frequency spectrum. Several superconducting diode materials and struc-tures have been reported, with different underlying mech-anisms leading to a different origin of diode effects, cate-gorized as intrinsic and extrinsic SDE. While the intrinsic mechanisms allow for wide parameter space for quantum control and tunability, extrinsic mechanisms allow for high rectification efficiency due to geometric optimization of asymmetric vortex dynamics. An optimization scheme is highly desired where high rectification efficiency driven by extrinsic mechanisms can be controlled via intrinsic quantum mechanisms. Additionally, the operational fre-quency of most existing superconducting diodes is very small ( ∼ MHz). Geometric optimization is desired to enhance the frequency range, up to the micro range ( ∼

GHz), such that superconducting diodes in this frequency range are readily available for integration with quantum hardware. Furthermore, SDE is characterized by inher-ent nonlinearity, which is a critical figure of merit for quantum technologies. However, dissipationless Kerr-free nonlinearity, with the absence of Kerr-effect, has not been fully explored in the existing models for SDE. Henceforth, advancing SDs calls for an innovative quantum-enhanced SD platform whose degrees of free-dom can be uniquely enhanced for optimizing SD-integrated quantum circuits, in which device-level nonlin-earity and nonreciprocity will enable on-chip integration of qubit and qubit-interfaces, with perfect anharmonic-ity, high-fidelity, and large coherence. Interestingly, flex-ibility in device design and versatility in materials selec-tion give SDs an advantage in addressing these signifi-cant challenges faced by current SD proposals and the 25     

> FIG. 7. Superconducting diode device design for optimized SDE and quantum control for technology readiness.
> (a) A heterostructure of superconductor with topological insulator and Chern/chiral magnet (left) where screening currents and stray fields are drawn for the FMI-SC-QSH/QAH heterostructure (middle) originating from the asymmetric vortex dynamics (right). (b) Josephson junction made of FMI-SC-QSH/QAH heterostructure with asymmetric superconducting leads. (c) Transport mechanism in conventional SD based on FMI-SC hybrid structure, junction-free (left) and Josephson junction (middle), showing ideal diode behavior with Cooper pair supercurrent in one direction whereas single-electron normal current along the other (right). (d) Transport mechanism in TQSD based on FMI-SC-QSH/QAH hybrid structure, junction-free (left) and Josephson junction (middle), showing ideal diode behavior with Cooper pair supercurrent in one direction whereas quantized single-electron chiral current along the other (right).

existing quantum technology hardware. As a potential route, we propose an innovative SD-device design and noise-resilient SD-mechanism, referred to as the TQSD. To realize the tantalizing prospects of this design and mechanism for SDs, from power management and con-trolled quantum processing to its storage and readout, further theoretical and experimental research is required to test the feasibility of various superconducting, mag-netic, and topological materials, and fabricate geometric asymmetries. Such a quantum-enhanced SDE will make SDs a truly physics defined materials science and engi-neering platform. 

Proposed SD-device design: Unlike a semicon-ducting diode, nonreciprocity in an SD emerges from symmetry-controlled nonreciprocal supercurrent trans-port. However, there is no unique device design or unique mechanism that could make SD readily available for potential integration in quantum tech-nology hardware. A technology ready device de-sign for quantum-enhanced SD can be fabricated via ferromagnetic/superconductor/topological-insulator het-erostructure, either in the bulk structure (7(a)) or in the Josephson junction (7(b)). Due to the coexistence of magnetism, topology, and superconductivity, the quan-tum control over wide-tunability of its parameter space arises from a delicate interplay between intrinsic quan-tum functionalities, combined with the extrinsic geomet-ric asymmetries in the architecture. First, this structure can exhibit an optimized SDE that incorporates differ-ent SDE mechanisms at the single platform, i.e., coex-istence of intrinsic SDE based on finite Cooper pairing momentum (FCPM), extrinsic VDE due to asymmetric vortex dynamics, and JDE based on intrinsic or extrinsic mechanisms. Second, this topological structure not only offers the coexistence of intrinsic and extrinsic SDEs, but also incorporates topological quantum functionalities, a wide parameter space, and quantum-enhanced tunabil-ity. Third, this innovative design will allow coexistence of field-free SDE and field-driven SDE, so that field-training enhances SDE while leaving field-free SDE unaffected. In addition, the presence of a magnetic field and intrin-sic magnetization in orthogonal directions, directed along both in-plane and out-of-plane orientations, allows inclu-sion of Rashba and Ising SOI, and thus a width control in topological superconducting structures [312]. For example, as shown in Figure 7, this device design with a bulk superconducting hybrid structure can host extrinsic VDE of type-A (with Bz ) and type-C (with 

MF M ) as well as intrinsic SDE with FCPM qx (through 

MF M ). In addition, Josephson junctions made of this hybrid structure can exhibit (i) intrinsic SDE [78, 87] to-gether with the topological diode effect (TDE) with giant MCA ( Bz ) [125], (ii) Intrinsic JDE with FCPM qx (by 

MF M ) [74] along with the intrinsic topological diode ef-26 fect (TDE) with chiral states, (iii) extrinsic vortex-driven JDE (V-JDE) with asymmetric superconducting leads or current crowding and quantum confinement [313]. 

Optimization of SDs: The quantum mechanization of SDE can be engineered by incorporating intrinsic SDE combined with geometric asymmetry that produces ex-trinsic SDE, enabling comprehensive control for explor-ing the quantum advantage by harnessing intrinsic quan-tum functionalities and leveraging quantum confinement. For example, field-free type-C VDE arising from stray magnetic fields and field-driven type-A VDE resulting from edge asymmetry can be combined to optimize the extrinsic VDE in ferromagnetic-superconducting bilay-ers. This strategy has recently been demonstrated in V/EuS bilayers, in which the extrinsic VDE can be tuned by simultaneously exploiting the effect of edge asymme-try in the superconducting vanadium (V) layer and the stray fields generated by the ferromagnetic insulator EuS. In this system, the SD effect associated with stray fields (type-C) originates from the in-plane magnetization com-ponent ( MF M ) of EuS, whereas the SDE associated with edge asymmetry (type-A) is induced by an out-of-plane applied magnetic field ( Bz ). In the presence of nontriv-ial topology arising from the topological insulator layer, intrinsic SDE also irises, either from Rashba SOI with in-plane magnetization ( MF M ) or Ising SOI with out-of-plane applied magnetic field ( Bz ). This coexistence of different intrinsic and extrinsic SDE mechanisms is allowed due to the same symme-try constraints leading to the different mechanisms of the SDE. nonreciprocity. For example, together with the interplay of SOI and Zeeman spin-splitting leading to MCA, FCPM can also arise due to Meissner screen-ing currents [74], thus allowing the coexistence of a wide variety of intrinsic mechanisms with MCA and extrin-sic SDE mechanisms MSC. In addition, thickness and width-dependent structural optimization also enables in-trinsic and extrinsic SD mechanisms to operate together in a complementary way, thus enhancing the performance of microwave devices with a broad frequency spectrum. For example, unlike conventional VDE where asymmet-ric vortex dynamics arises from an out-of-plane magnetic field, nonreciprocal behavior with an in-plane magnetic field dominates the nonreciprocity arising from the out-of-plane magnetic field in quasi-two-dimensional topolog-ical/chiral kagome superconductor CsV 3Sb 5 [101]. Such an anisotropic superconducting properties in a quasi-two-dimensional Rashba structure offer coexistence of both intrinsic SDE and extrinsic VDE with an in-plane mag-netic field. 

Topological quantum SD (TQSD): Although su-perconductors allow zero-resistance supercurrent trans-port, SDs can cause dissipation due to normal state single-electron current in the revere direction, even with ideal SDs exhibiting 100% rectification efficiency. To make SD completely dissipation-free, normal state trans-port must also be quantized. The proposed device de-sign can enable TQSD where the Cooper-pair current flows in the forward direction, while quantized chiral edge states enable transport in the reverse direction. First, the quantum-enabled nonlinearity and nonreciprocity in TQSD will lay foundation for a powerful platform for un-covering fundamental principles of quantum condensed matter, providing deep insight into superconductivity, magnetism, topology, and the rich physics arising from their coexistence. Second, TQSD will also allow effi-cient switching due to topological quantum field effects [135–138]. Third, the incorporation of TQSD, in which topology offers an additional layer of protection so that quantized state transfers become resilient to disorder and noise, and in which quantum functionalities arising from topological mechanisms enable a widely tuneable param-eter space, offers significant advantages for conceptualiz-ing quantum-controlled c-QED architecture. 

Device-level scalability: The inherent nonlinearity and intrinsic nonreciprocity of unidirectional supercon-ductors can be introduced in quantum technology hard-ware either by integrating SDs in the existing c-QED environments or by directly incorporating SDE in the quantum material Josephson elements that constitute qubit and qubit-interfaces. Interestingly, the existence of SDE, both in Josephson junctions and in junction-free bulk superconductors, opens another route for the scal-ability of quantum technology hardware. That is, the existing superconducting circuitry is heavily relying on the conventional Josephson-junctions, with extension to dipole SQUIDs and multi-pole Josephson elements with a complex circuit design. In the conventional Josephson-junctions, Tc is typically lower than the constituent su-perconductors, and the information processing is heav-ily based on magnetic bias and fluxes. To move su-perconducting technologies beyond conventional circuits based on Josephson elements, SDs are important building blocks for exploring junction-free material platforms with intrinsic nonreciprocal superconductivity, scalable circuit design, and optimization of quantum functionalities. 

Intervening hybrids and multi-axis sensing: In hybrid quantum technologies, where superconducting cir-cuits interact with other quantum systems [2, 314], SDs and SD-based devices can be integrated as interven-ing devices, including SD-based spin-splitters and spin-filters [49, 160, 315], SD-based sensors [66] and detectors [171, 316], SD-based nonreciprocal antenna [170], as well as SD-based nonreciprocal devices for signal routing such as topologically protected isolators [317] and quantum-limited circulators [318, 319]. In contrast to supercurrent spin Josephson diodes (SSJDs) [160], the nonreciprocity of the quasi-particle current can be induced by breaking the electron-hole symmetry through spin-splitting and spin-filtering in superconductor–ferromagnet hybrids, allowing super-conducting spintronic tunnel diodes (SSTDs) [49] and corresponding spin-related superconducting logic and memory devices for superconducting spintronics [13– 16, 320]. This phenomenon also allows supercon-ducting thermoelectric effects [320, 321] and supercon-27 ductor–ferromagnet thermoelectric detectors (SFTEDs) [171, 316]. The functionalities of both SSJDs [160] and SSTDs [49], and thus the corresponding supercon-ducting Josephson diode sensor (SJDS) [66] and self-biased SFTED [171], are influenced by the combination of time-reversal symmetry breaking and inversion sym-metry breaking effects. Henceforth, the nonreciprocity of spin and thermoelectricity can be made noise-resilient by mapping spin and thermoelectric devices with super-current diode effects. In the symmetry-constrained intrinsic and extrin-sic SDs, the directions of the supercurrent, the polar axis, and the magnetization are required to be mutu-ally orthogonal. Under these constraints, symmetry-governed nonreciprocity can only give rise to a single-axis sensor/detector with a restricted dynamic range for magnetic-field sensing/detection, closely resembling sens-ing schemes based on nitrogen-vacancy centers. How-ever, SDE in various superconducting materials, such as kagome superconductors [101], strained/doped film of the superconductor SrTiO 3 [322], and noncentrosymmetric type-II Weyl semimetal T d-MoTe 2, can be realized with different orientations of magnetic field. In kagome su-perconductors, the resulting SDE could be extrinsic, as-sociated with asymmetric vortex dynamics, or intrinsic, associated with electronic chirality. In Weyl semimetals, SDE with different orientations of magnetic field could be associated by different types of Rashba SOI. In SrTiO 3

superconducting thin films, on the other hand, the origin of SDE both with magnetic field orientation perpendicu-lar and parallel to the current direction suggests the co-existence of polar and chiral effects. Moreover, in Rashba nanowires [78], the emergence of an intrinsic SDE necessi-tates the simultaneous application of magnetic fields ori-ented both longitudinally (along the wire axis) and trans-versely (perpendicular to the wire). Nonreciprocal super-conductors, in which SDE is realizable through magneti-zation with a wide dynamic range, can be employed for multi-axis magnetic sensors. However, the underlying quantum mechanisms leading to SDE with multiple ori-entations of magnetization are not yet fully understood. To steer the engineering of multi-axis superconducting magnetic sensors, a broad search of superconducting ma-terials and a more comprehensive understanding of quan-tum origin of SDE are required. In the context of recent advances in SDs and SD-based quantum circuits, this perspective highlights sev-eral innovations and technological impacts, including in-novative device design that exhibits an optimized and quantum-enhanced SD, a novel concept of TQSD that guaranties quantum-limited noise, and the technologi-cal readiness of SDs with a simultaneous quantum-level tunability of dissipationless nonlinearity, large rectifica-tion efficiency, and broad operational frequency spec-trum. The future research in this area expects to formu-late an integrated theoretical framework – based on in-novative design, modeling, simulations, and optimization – that translate the underlying quantum functionalities of SDs into meaningful impacts for noise-resilient, high-performance, and scalable c-QED environment. Such a unified framework will expect the development of re-fined mechanisms for SDs, the establishment of improved circuit design and approaches for SD-integrated c-QED, the generation of new knowledge through the delivery of advanced interdisciplinary techniques spanning quantum condensed matter physics, materials science, materials engineering, and electronic engineering to enable trans-formative advances in quantum technologies. We hope that this perspective will offer a pathway toward fabri-cating SD-integrated quantum circuits, in which device-level nonlinearity and nonreciprocity will enable on-chip integration of qubit and qubit-interfaces with perfect an-harmonicity, high-fidelity, and large coherence.                                       

> [1] M. Nadeem, M. S. Fuhrer, and X. Wang, The super-conducting diode effect, Nature Reviews Physics 5, 558 (2023). [2] Z.-L. Xiang, S. Ashhab, J. You, and F. Nori, Hybrid quantum circuits: Superconducting circuits interact-ing¡? format?¿ with other quantum systems, Reviews of Modern Physics 85 , 623 (2013). [3] A. Blais, A. L. Grimsmo, S. M. Girvin, and A. Wallraff, Circuit quantum electrodynamics, Reviews of Modern Physics 93 , 025005 (2021). [4] M. Nadeem, M. S. Fuhrer, and X. Wang, Super-conducting diode effect–fundamental concepts, ma-terial aspects, and device prospects, arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.13564 (2023). [5] A. I. Braginski, Superconductor electronics: status and outlook, Journal of superconductivity and novel mag-netism 32 , 23 (2019). [6] D. Farrah, K. E. Smith, D. Ardila, C. M. Bradford, M. J. DiPirro, C. Ferkinhoff, J. Glenn, P. F. Goldsmith, D. T. Leisawitz, T. Nikola, et al. , Far-infrared instrumenta-tion and technological development for the next decade, Journal of Astronomical Telescopes, Instruments, and Systems 5, 020901 (2019). [7] E. Cam, Z. Hungerford, N. Schoch, F. P. Miranda, and C. D. Y. de Le ´on, Electricity 2024 analysis and fore-cast to 2026, INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (2024). [8] SRC, Decadal plan for semiconduc-tors, Semiconductor Research Corporation, https://www.src.org/about/decadal-plan/ (2021). [9] M. Tinkham, Introduction to Superconductivity , Dover Books on Physics Series (Dover Publications, 2004). [10] R. Radebaugh, Cryocoolers: the state of the art and re-cent developments, Journal of Physics: Condensed Mat-ter 21 , 164219 (2009). [11] S. Anders, M. Blamire, F.-I. Buchholz, D.-G. Cr´ et´ e, R. Cristiano, P. Febvre, L. Fritzsch, A. Herr, E. Il’Ichev, J. Kohlmann, et al. , European roadmap on supercon-

28 

ductive electronics–status and perspectives, Physica C: Superconductivity 470 , 2079 (2010). [12] O. Mukhanov, A. Kirichenko, C. Howington, J. Wal-ter, M. Hutchings, I. Vernik, D. Yohannes, K. Dodge, A. Ballard, B. Plourde, et al. , Scalable quantum com-puting infrastructure based on superconducting elec-tronics, in 2019 IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM) (IEEE, 2019) pp. 31–2. [13] I. ˇZuti´ c, J. Fabian, and S. D. Sarma, Spintronics: Fun-damentals and applications, Reviews of modern physics 

76 , 323 (2004). [14] J. Linder and J. W. Robinson, Superconducting spin-tronics, Nature Physics 11 , 307 (2015). [15] A. Mel’nikov, S. V. Mironov, A. V. Samokhvalov, and A. I. Buzdin, Superconducting spintronics: state of the art and prospects, Uspekhi Fiz. Nauk 192 , 1339 (2022). [16] R. Cai, I. ˇZuti´ c, and W. Han, Superconduc-tor/ferromagnet heterostructures: A platform for su-perconducting spintronics and quantum computation, Advanced Quantum Technologies 6, 2200080 (2023). [17] D. Monroe, C. Shen, D. Tringali, M. Alidoust, T. Zhou, and I. ˇZuti´ c, Phase jumps in josephson junctions with time-dependent spin–orbit coupling, Applied Physics Letters 125 (2024). [18] F. Tafuri, Fundamentals and frontiers of the Josephson effect , Vol. 286 (Springer Nature, 2019). [19] A. V. Dixit, S. Chakram, K. He, A. Agrawal, R. K. Naik, D. I. Schuster, and A. Chou, Searching for dark matter with a superconducting qubit, Physical review letters 126 , 141302 (2021). [20] G. Wendin, Quantum information processing with su-perconducting circuits: a review, Reports on Progress in Physics 80 , 106001 (2017). [21] X. Liu and M. C. Hersam, 2d materials for quantum information science, Nature Reviews Materials 4, 669 (2019). [22] C.-J. Yang, J. Li, M. Fiebig, and S. Pal, Terahertz con-trol of many-body dynamics in quantum materials, Na-ture Reviews Materials 8, 518 (2023). [23] D. Kirichenko, S. Sarwana, and A. Kirichenko, Zero static power dissipation biasing of rsfq circuits, IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductivity 21 , 776 (2011). [24] O. A. Mukhanov, Energy-efficient single flux quantum technology, IEEE Transactions on Applied Supercon-ductivity 21 , 760 (2011). [25] R. McDermott, M. G. Vavilov, B. L. T. Plourde, F. K. Wilhelm, P. J. Liebermann, O. A. Mukhanov, and T. A. Ohki, Quantum–classical interface based on single flux quantum digital logic, Quantum science and technology 

3, 024004 (2018). [26] G. De Simoni, F. Paolucci, P. Solinas, E. Strambini, and F. Giazotto, Metallic supercurrent field-effect transistor, Nature nanotechnology 13 , 802 (2018). [27] I. Golokolenov, A. Guthrie, S. Kafanov, Y. A. Pashkin, and V. Tsepelin, On the origin of the controversial elec-trostatic field effect in superconductors, Nature Com-munications 12 , 2747 (2021). [28] K. Likharev, Superconducting weak links, Reviews of Modern Physics 51 , 101 (1979). [29] J. Ma, R. Zhan, and X. Lin, Superconducting diode effects: Mechanisms, materials and applications, Ad-vanced Physics Research , 2400180 (2025). [30] D. Shaffer and A. Levchenko, Theories of supercon-ducting diode effects, arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.25864 (2025). [31] F. Ando, Y. Miyasaka, T. Li, J. Ishizuka, T. Arakawa, Y. Shiota, T. Moriyama, Y. Yanase, and T. Ono, Ob-servation of superconducting diode effect, Nature 584 ,373 (2020). [32] C. Baumgartner, L. Fuchs, A. Costa, S. Reinhardt, S. Gronin, G. Gardner, T. Lindemann, M. Manfra, P. Faria Junior, D. Kochan, J. Fabian, N. Paradiso, and C. Strunk, Supercurrent rectification and magnetochiral effects in symmetric josephson junctions, Nature Nan-otechnology 17 , 39–44 (2022). [33] J.-X. Lin, P. Siriviboon, H. Scammell, S. Liu, D. Rhodes, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, J. Hone, M. Scheurer, and J. Li, Zero-field superconducting diode effect in small-twist-angle trilayer graphene, Nature Physics 18 , 1221–1227 (2022). [34] A. Daido, Y. Ikeda, and Y. Yanase, Intrinsic super-conducting diode effect, Phys. Rev. Lett. 128 , 037001 (2022). [35] N. F. Q. Yuan and L. Fu, Supercurrent diode effect and finite-momentum superconductors, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 119 , e2119548119 (2022). [36] J. J. He, Y. Tanaka, and N. Nagaosa, A phenomeno-logical theory of superconductor diodes, New Journal of Physics 24 , 053014 (2022). [37] S. Ili´ c and F. S. Bergeret, Theory of the supercurrent diode effect in rashba superconductors with arbitrary disorder, Phys. Rev. Lett. 128 , 177001 (2022). [38] H. D. Scammell, J. I. A. Li, and M. S. Scheurer, The-ory of zero-field superconducting diode effect in twisted trilayer graphene, 2D Materials 9, 025027 (2022). [39] D. Y. Vodolazov and F. Peeters, Superconducting rec-tifier based on the asymmetric surface barrier effect, Physical Review B 72 , 172508 (2005). [40] D. Y. Vodolazov, B. Gribkov, S. Gusev, A. Y. Klimov, Y. N. Nozdrin, V. Rogov, and S. Vdovichev, Consider-able enhancement of the critical current in a supercon-ducting film by a magnetized magnetic strip, Physical Review B 72 , 064509 (2005). [41] D. Cerbu, V. Gladilin, J. Cuppens, J. Fritzsche, J. Tem-pere, J. Devreese, V. Moshchalkov, A. Silhanek, and J. Van de Vondel, Vortex ratchet induced by controlled edge roughness, New Journal of Physics 15 , 063022 (2013). [42] A. Sivakov, O. Turutanov, A. Kolinko, and A. Pokhila, Spatial characterization of the edge barrier in wide su-perconducting films, Low Temperature Physics 44 , 226 (2018). [43] Y. Hou, F. Nichele, H. Chi, A. Lodesani, Y. Wu, M. F. Ritter, D. Z. Haxell, M. Davydova, S. Ili´ c, O. Glezakou-Elbert, et al. , Ubiquitous superconducting diode effect in superconductor thin films, Physical Review Letters 

131 , 027001 (2023). [44] D. Suri, A. Kamra, T. N. Meier, M. Kronseder, W. Belzig, C. H. Back, and C. Strunk, Non-reciprocity of vortex-limited critical current in conventional super-conducting micro-bridges, Applied Physics Letters 121 

(2022). [45] S. Chahid, S. Teknowijoyo, I. Mowgood, and A. Gulian, High-frequency diode effect in superconducting nb 3 sn microbridges, Physical Review B 107 , 054506 (2023). [46] M. Ohkuma, R. Matsumoto, and Y. Takano, Nonrecip-rocal supercurrent in thin film of type ii superconduct-29 

ing sn, Applied Physics Express 16 , 043004 (2023). [47] M. Davydova, S. Prembabu, and L. Fu, Universal josephson diode effect, Science Advances 8, eabo0309 (2022). [48] Y. Tanaka, B. Lu, and N. Nagaosa, Theory of giant diode effect in d-wave superconductor junctions on the surface of a topological insulator, Phys. Rev. B 106 ,214524 (2022). [49] E. Strambini, M. Spies, N. Ligato, S. Ili´ c, M. Rouco, C. Gonz´ alez Orellana, M. Ilyn, C. Rogero, F. Bergeret, J. Moodera, P. Virtanen, T. Heikkila, and F. Giazotto, Superconducting spintronic tunnel diode, Nature Com-munications 13 , 2431 (2022). [50] A. Daido and Y. Yanase, Unidirectional superconduc-tivity and superconducting diode effect induced by dis-sipation, Physical Review B 111 , L020508 (2025). [51] R. S. Souto, M. Leijnse, and C. Schrade, Josephson diode effect in supercurrent interferometers, Physical Review Letters 129 , 267702 (2022). [52] M. Valentini, O. Sagi, L. Baghumyan, T. de Gijsel, J. Jung, S. Calcaterra, A. Ballabio, J. Aguilera Servin, K. Aggarwal, M. Janik, et al. , Parity-conserving cooper-pair transport and ideal superconducting diode in planar germanium, Nature Communications 15 , 169 (2024). [53] R. Seoane Souto, M. Leijnse, C. Schrade, M. Valentini, G. Katsaros, and J. Danon, Tuning the josephson diode response with an ac current, Physical Review Research 

6, L022002 (2024). [54] H. Wang, Y. Zhu, Z. Bai, Z. Lyu, J. Yang, L. Zhao, X. Zhou, Q.-K. Xue, and D. Zhang, Quantum supercon-ducting diode effect with perfect efficiency above liquid-nitrogen temperature, Nature Physics , 1 (2025). [55] J. J. Cuozzo, W. Pan, J. Shabani, and E. Rossi, Microwave-tunable diode effect in asymmetric squids with topological josephson junctions, Physical Review Research 6, 023011 (2024). [56] D. Shaffer, S. Li, J. Hasan, M. Titov, and A. Levchenko, Josephson diode effect from nonequilibrium current in a superconducting interferometer, Physical Review B 

112 , 094509 (2025). [57] J. Chiles, E. G. Arnault, C.-C. Chen, T. F. Larson, L. Zhao, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, F. Amet, and G. Finkelstein, Nonreciprocal supercurrents in a field-free graphene josephson triode, Nano Letters 23 , 5257 (2023). [58] A. M. Bozkurt, J. Brookman, V. Fatemi, and A. R. Akhmerov, Double-fourier engineering of josephson energy-phase relationships applied to diodes, SciPost Physics 15 , 204 (2023). [59] P. Hosur, Criticality as a universal thermodynamic re-quirement for perfect intrinsic superconducting diodes, arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.21384 (2025). [60] D. Chakraborty and A. M. Black-Schaffer, Perfect su-perconducting diode effect in altermagnets, Physical Re-view Letters 135 , 026001 (2025). [61] D. Shaffer, D. V. Chichinadze, and A. Levchenko, Su-perconducting diode effect in multiphase superconduc-tors, Physical Review B 110 , 184509 (2024). [62] S. Banerjee and M. S. Scheurer, Enhanced supercon-ducting diode effect due to coexisting phases, Physical Review Letters 132 , 046003 (2024). [63] P. Hosur and D. Palacios, Proximity-induced equilib-rium supercurrent and perfect superconducting diode effect due to band asymmetry, Physical Review B 108 ,094513 (2023). [64] L. D. Anh, K. Ishihara, T. Hotta, K. Inagaki, H. Maki, T. Saeki, M. Kobayashi, and M. Tanaka, Large super-conducting diode effect in ion-beam patterned sn-based superconductor nanowire/topological dirac semimetal planar heterostructures, Nature Communications 15 ,8014 (2024). [65] R. Hess, H. F. Legg, D. Loss, and J. Klinovaja, Joseph-son transistor from the superconducting diode effect in domain wall and skyrmion magnetic racetracks, Physi-cal Review B 108 , 174516 (2023). [66] A. Sinner, X.-G. Wang, S. Parkin, A. Ernst, V. Dugaev, and L. Chotorlishvili, Superconducting diode sensor, Physical Review B 109 , 214510 (2024). [67] A. Sinner, X.-G. Wang, and L. Chotorlishvili, Skyrmion footprint in the thermodynamics of the josephson su-perconducting diode, Annalen der Physik 538 , e00488 (2026). [68] C. Baumgartner, L. Fuchs, A. Costa, J. Pic´ o-Cort´ es, S. Reinhardt, S. Gronin, G. C. Gardner, T. Lindemann, M. J. Manfra, P. E. F. Junior, D. Kochan, J. Fabian, N. Paradiso, and C. Strunk, Effect of rashba and dres-selhaus spin–orbit coupling on supercurrent rectifica-tion and magnetochiral anisotropy of ballistic joseph-son junctions, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 

34 , 154005 (2022). [69] W.-H. Kang, M. Barth, A. Costa, A. Garcia-Ruiz, A. Mre´ nca-Kolasi´ nska, M.-H. Liu, and D. Kochan, Mag-netotransport and spin-relaxation signatures of the ra-dial rashba and dresselhaus spin-orbit coupling in prox-imitized graphene, Physical review letters 133 , 216201 (2024). [70] A. Costa and J. Fabian, Transport signatures of radial rashba spin-orbit coupling at ferromag-net/superconductor interfaces, Physical Review B 111 ,054512 (2025). [71] A. Costa, O. Kanehira, H. Matsueda, and J. Fabian, Unconventional josephson supercurrent diode effect in-duced by chiral spin-orbit coupling, Physical Review B 

111 , L140506 (2025). [72] H. Wu, Y. Wang, Y. Xu, P. Sivakumar, C. Pasco, U. Fil-ippozzi, S. Parkin, Y. Zeng, T. McQueen, and M. Ali, The field-free josephson diode in a van der waals het-erostructure, Nature 604 , 653 (2022). [73] B. Lorenz, B. Christian, F. Lorenz, B. Christian, P. Nicolas, M. B. Jonas, L. Kai-Qiang, M. L. John, T. Takashi, W. Kenji, S. Christoph, and N. Paradiso, Supercurrent diode effect and magnetochiral anisotropy in few-layer nbse 2, Nature Communications 13 , 4266 (2022). [74] B. Pal, A. Chakraborty, P. Sivakumar, M. Davydova, A. Gopi, A. Pandeya, J. Krieger, Y. Zhang, M. Date, S. Ju, N. Yuan, N. Schr¨ oter, L. Fu, and S. Parkin, Josephson diode effect from cooper pair momentum in a topological semimetal, Nature Physics 18 , 1228–1233 (2022). [75] F. Dolcini, M. Houzet, and J. S. Meyer, Topological josephson ϕ 0 junctions, Physical Review B 92 , 035428 (2015). [76] Y.-J. Wei, J.-J. Wang, and J. Wang, Josephson diode effect in a line-centered honeycomb lattice based su-perconductor junction, Physical Review B 108 , 054521 (2023). 30 

[77] N. F. Yuan and L. Fu, Topological metals and finite-momentum superconductors, Proceedings of the Na-tional Academy of Sciences 118 , e2019063118 (2021). [78] H. F. Legg, D. Loss, and J. Klinovaja, Superconducting diode effect due to magnetochiral anisotropy in topolog-ical insulators and rashba nanowires, Phys. Rev. B 106 ,104501 (2022). [79] K. Takasan, S. Sumita, and Y. Yanase, Supercurrent-induced topological phase transitions, Phys. Rev. B

106 , 014508 (2022). [80] T. Karabassov, I. Bobkova, A. Golubov, and A. Vasenko, Hybrid helical state and superconducting diode effect in superconductor/ferromagnet/topological insulator heterostructures, Physical Review B 106 ,224509 (2022). [81] K. Yasuda, H. Yasuda, T. Liang, R. Yoshimi, A. Tsukazaki, K. S. Takahashi, N. Nagaosa, M. Kawasaki, and Y. Tokura, Nonreciprocal charge transport at topological insulator/superconductor interface, Nature communications 10 , 2734 (2019). [82] M. Masuko, M. Kawamura, R. Yoshimi, M. Hirayama, Y. Ikeda, R. Watanabe, J. J. He, D. Maryenko, A. Tsukazaki, K. S. Takahashi, et al. , Nonreciprocal charge transport in topological superconductor candi-date bi2te3/pdte2 heterostructure, npj Quantum Mate-rials 7, 1 (2022). [83] S. Nagahama, Y. Sato, M. Kawamura, I. Belopolski, R. Yoshimi, A. Tsukazaki, N. Kanazawa, K. S. Taka-hashi, M. Kawasaki, and Y. Tokura, Two-dimensional superconducting diode effect in topological insula-tor/superconductor heterostructure, Physical Review Letters 135 , 246003 (2025). [84] C.-Z. Chen, J. J. He, M. N. Ali, G.-H. Lee, K. C. Fong, and K. T. Law, Asymmetric josephson effect in inver-sion symmetry breaking topological materials, Physical Review B 98 , 075430 (2018). [85] A. A. Kopasov, A. G. Kutlin, and A. S. Mel’nikov, Ge-ometry controlled superconducting diode and anoma-lous josephson effect triggered by the topological phase transition in curved proximitized nanowires, Phys. Rev. B 103 , 144520 (2021). [86] M. C. Dartiailh, W. Mayer, J. Yuan, K. S. Wickra-masinghe, A. Matos-Abiague, I. ˇZuti´ c, and J. Shabani, Phase signature of topological transition in josephson junctions, Physical Review Letters 126 , 036802 (2021). [87] H. F. Legg, K. Laubscher, D. Loss, and J. Klinovaja, Parity-protected superconducting diode effect in topo-logical josephson junctions, Physical Review B 108 ,214520 (2023). [88] B. Lu, S. Ikegaya, P. Burset, Y. Tanaka, and N. Na-gaosa, Tunable josephson diode effect on the surface of topological insulators, Physical Review Letters 131 ,096001 (2023). [89] P. Chen, G. Wang, B. Ye, J. Wang, L. Zhou, Z. Tang, L. Wang, J. Wang, W. Zhang, J. Mei, et al. , Edel-stein effect induced superconducting diode effect in in-version symmetry breaking mote2 josephson junctions, Advanced Functional Materials , 2311229 (2023). [90] J. Cayao, N. Nagaosa, and Y. Tanaka, Enhancing the josephson diode effect with majorana bound states, Physical Review B 109 , L081405 (2024). [91] Z. Liu, L. Huang, and J. Wang, Josephson diode effect in topological superconductors, Physical Review B 110 ,014519 (2024). [92] T. Karabassov, Anisotropic josephson diode effect in the topological hybrid junctions with the hexagonal warp-ing, JETP Letters 119 , 316 (2024). [93] S. Mondal, P.-H. Fu, and J. Cayao, Josephson diode ef-fect with andreev and majorana bound states, Physical Review B 112 , 144506 (2025). [94] G.-Q. Wang, J.-J. Miao, and W.-Q. Chen, Theoret-ical study of superconducting diode effect in planar td-mote2 josephson junctions, Physical Review B 112 ,014508 (2025). [95] E. Nikodem, J. Schluck, M. Geier, M. Papaj, H. F. Legg, J. Feng, M. Bagchi, L. Fu, and Y. Ando, Tunable su-perconducting diode effect in a topological nano-squid, Science Advances 11 , eadw4898 (2025). [96] J. Hooper, Z. Q. Mao, K. D. Nelson, Y. Liu, M. Wada, and Y. Maeno, Anomalous josephson network in the Ru-sr 2ruo 4 eutectic system, Phys. Rev. B 70 , 014510 (2004). [97] H. Kaneyasu, N. Hayashi, B. Gut, K. Makoshi, and M. Sigrist, Phase transition in the 3-kelvin phase of eutectic sr2ruo4–ru, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 79 , 104705 (2010). [98] B. Zinkl, K. Hamamoto, and M. Sigrist, Symmetry con-ditions for the superconducting diode effect in chiral su-perconductors, Phys. Rev. Research 4, 033167 (2022). [99] F. Qin, W. Shi, T. Ideue, M. Yoshida, A. Zak, R. Tenne, T. Kikitsu, D. Inoue, D. Hashizume, and Y. Iwasa, Su-perconductivity in a chiral nanotube, Nature Commu-nications 8, 14465 (2017). [100] T. Ideue and Y. Iwasa, Symmetry breaking and nonlin-ear electric transport in van der waals nanostructures, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 12 , 201 (2021). [101] Y. Wu, Q. Wang, X. Zhou, J. Wang, P. Dong, J. He, Y. Ding, B. Teng, Y. Zhang, Y. Li, et al. , Nonreciprocal charge transport in topological kagome superconductor csv3sb5, npj Quantum Materials 7, 105 (2022). [102] J. J. He, Y. Tanaka, and N. Nagaosa, The supercurrent diode effect and nonreciprocal paraconductivity due to the chiral structure of nanotubes, Nature Communica-tions 14 , 3330 (2023). [103] N. Nunchot and Y. Yanase, Chiral superconducting diode effect by dzyaloshinsky-moriya interaction, Phys-ical Review B 109 , 054508 (2024). [104] C. Li and J. J. He, Microscopic study of supercurrent diode effect in chiral nanotubes, Physical Review B 111 ,224504 (2025). [105] Y.-M. Xie and K. Law, Orbital fulde-ferrell pairing state in moir´ e ising superconductors, Physical Review Letters 

131 , 016001 (2023). [106] K. Nakamura, A. Daido, and Y. Yanase, Orbital effect on the intrinsic superconducting diode effect, Physical Review B 109 , 094501 (2024). [107] D. Zhao, L. Debbeler, M. K¨ uhne, S. Fecher, N. Gross, and J. Smet, Evidence of finite-momentum pairing in a centrosymmetric bilayer, Nature Physics , 1 (2023). [108] T. Asaba, M. Naritsuka, H. Asaeda, Y. Kosuge, S. Ikemori, S. Suetsugu, Y. Kasahara, Y. Kohsaka, T. Terashima, A. Daido, et al. , Evidence for a finite-momentum cooper pair in tricolor d-wave supercon-ducting superlattices, Nature Communications 15 , 3861 (2024). [109] S. Banerjee and M. S. Scheurer, Altermagnetic super-conducting diode effect, Physical Review B 110 , 024503 31 

(2024). [110] S. Bhowmik and A. Saha, Topological majorana zero modes and the superconducting diode effect driven by fulde-ferrell-larkin-ovchinnikov pairing in a helical shiba chain, Physical Review B 111 , L161402 (2025). [111] B. Zhai, B. Li, Y. Wen, F. Wu, and J. He, Prediction of ferroelectric superconductors with reversible supercon-ducting diode effect, Phys. Rev. B 106 , L140505 (2022). [112] H.-Y. Yang, J. J. Cuozzo, A. J. Bokka, G. Qiu, C. Eck-berg, Y. Lyu, S. Huyan, C.-W. Chu, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, et al. , Field-resilient supercurrent diode in a multiferroic josephson junction, Nature communi-cations 16 , 9287 (2025). [113] R. Wang, H. Chen, H. Wang, B. Liu, X. Chen, J. Cao, Z. Han, Z. Yang, X. Renshaw Wang, X. Zhao, et al. ,Nonvolatile electrical switching of nonreciprocal trans-port in ferroelectric polar metal wte2, Nature commu-nications (2025). [114] G. L. J. A. Rikken, J. F¨ olling, and P. Wyder, Electrical magnetochiral anisotropy, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 , 236602 (2001). [115] G. L. J. A. Rikken and P. Wyder, Magnetoelectric anisotropy in diffusive transport, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 ,016601 (2005). [116] F. Pop, P. Auban-Senzier, E. Canadell, G. Rikken, and N. Avarvari, Electrical magnetochiral anisotropy in a bulk chiral molecular conductor, Nature communica-tions 5, 3757 (2014). [117] T. Ideue, K. Hamamoto, S. Koshikawa, M. Ezawa, S. Shimizu, Y. Kaneko, Y. Tokura, N. Nagaosa, and Y. Iwasa, Bulk rectification effect in a polar semicon-ductor, Nature Physics 13 , 578–583 (2017). [118] G. Rikken and N. Avarvari, Strong electrical magne-tochiral anisotropy in tellurium, Physical Review B 99 ,245153 (2019). [119] K. Yasuda, A. Tsukazaki, R. Yoshimi, K. Takahashi, M. Kawasaki, and Y. Tokura, Large unidirectional mag-netoresistance in a magnetic topological insulator, Phys-ical review letters 117 , 127202 (2016). [120] T. Morimoto and N. Nagaosa, Chiral anomaly and giant magnetochiral anisotropy in noncentrosymmetric weyl semimetals, Physical review letters 117 , 146603 (2016). [121] P. He, S. S.-L. Zhang, D. Zhu, Y. Liu, Y. Wang, J. Yu, G. Vignale, and H. Yang, Bilinear magnetoelectric re-sistance as a probe of three-dimensional spin texture in topological surface states, Nature Physics 14 , 495 (2018). [122] T. Yoshinori and N. Naoto, Nonreciprocal responses from non-centrosymmetric quantum materials, Nature communications 9, 3740 (2018). [123] K. Yasuda, T. Morimoto, R. Yoshimi, M. Mogi, A. Tsukazaki, M. Kawamura, K. S. Takahashi, M. Kawasaki, N. Nagaosa, and Y. Tokura, Large non-reciprocal charge transport mediated by quantum anomalous hall edge states, Nature Nanotechnology 15 ,831 (2020). [124] H. Isobe, S.-Y. Xu, and L. Fu, High-frequency rectifi-cation via chiral bloch electrons, Science advances 6,eaay2497 (2020). [125] H. Legg, M. R¨ oßler, F. M¨ unning, D. Fan, O. Bre-unig, A. Bliesener, G. Lippertz, A. Uday, A. Taskin, D. Loss, J. Klinovaja, and Y. Ando, Giant magnetochi-ral anisotropy from quantum-confined surface states of topological insulator nanowires, Nature Nanotechnology 

17 , 696–700 (2022). [126] Z. Zhang, N. Wang, N. Cao, A. Wang, X. Zhou, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, B. Yan, and W.-b. Gao, Non-reciprocal charge transport in an intrinsic mag-netic topological insulator mnbi2te4, Nature Commu-nications , 6191 (2022). [127] C. Ye, X. Xie, W. Lv, K. Huang, A. J. Yang, S. Jiang, X. Liu, D. Zhu, X. Qiu, M. Tong, T. Zhou, C.-H. Hsu, G. Chang, H. Lin, P. Li, K. Yang, Z. Wang, T. Jiang, and X. Renshaw Wang, Nonreciprocal transport in a bi-layer of mnbi2te4 and pt, Nano Letters 22 , 1366 (2022). [128] R. Mei, Linear and Nonlinear Responses in Magnetic Topological Materials (The Pennsylvania State Univer-sity, 2024). [129] A. Gao, S.-W. Chen, B. Ghosh, J.-X. Qiu, Y.-F. Liu, Y. Onishi, C. Hu, T. Qian, D. B´ erub´ e, T. Dinh, 

et al. , An antiferromagnetic diode effect in even-layered mnbi2te4, Nature Electronics , 1 (2024). [130] S. Sakamoto, T. Nomoto, T. Higo, Y. Hibino, T. Ya-mamoto, S. Tamaru, Y. Kotani, H. Kosaki, M. Shiga, D. Nishio-Hamane, et al. , Antiferromagnetic spin-torque diode effect in a kagome weyl semimetal, Nature Nanotechnology , 1 (2024). [131] C. Li, R. Wang, S. Zhang, Y. Qin, Z. Ying, B. Wei, Z. Dai, F. Guo, W. Chen, R. Zhang, et al. , Observation of giant non-reciprocal charge transport from quantum hall states in a topological insulator, Nature Materials 

23 , 1208 (2024). [132] V. Krsti´ c, S. Roth, M. Burghard, K. Kern, and G. L. J. A. Rikken, Magneto-chiral anisotropy in charge trans-port through single-walled carbon nanotubes, The Jour-nal of Chemical Physics 117 , 11315 (2002). [133] Y. Wang, H. F. Legg, T. B¨ omerich, J. Park, S. Biesenkamp, A. Taskin, M. Braden, A. Rosch, and Y. Ando, Gigantic magnetochiral anisotropy in the topological semimetal zrte 5, Physical Review Letters 

128 , 176602 (2022). [134] E. Wang, H. Zeng, W. Duan, and H. Huang, Sponta-neous inversion symmetry breaking and emergence of berry curvature and orbital magnetization in topolog-ical zrte 5 films, Physical Review Letters 132 , 266802 (2024). [135] M. Nadeem, I. Di Bernardo, X. Wang, M. S. Fuhrer, and D. Culcer, Overcoming boltzmann’s tyranny in a transistor via the topological quantum field effect, Nano Letters 21 , 3155 (2021). [136] M. S. Fuhrer, M. T. Edmonds, D. Culcer, M. Nadeem, X. Wang, N. Medhekar, Y. Yin, and J. H. Cole, Proposal for a negative capacitance topological quantum field-effect transistor, in 2021 IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting (IEDM) (IEEE, 2021) pp. 38–2. [137] M. Nadeem, C. Zhang, D. Culcer, A. R. Hamilton, M. S. Fuhrer, and X. Wang, Optimizing topological switching in confined 2d-xene nanoribbons via finite-size effects, Applied Physics Reviews 9, 011411 (2022). [138] B. Weber, M. S. Fuhrer, X.-L. Sheng, S. A. Yang, R. Thomale, S. Shamim, L. W. Molenkamp, D. Cob-den, D. Pesin, H. J. Zandvliet, et al. , 2024 roadmap on 2d topological insulators, Journal of Physics: Materials 

7, 022501 (2024). [139] M. Amundsen, J. Linder, J. W. Robinson, I. ˇZuti´ c, and N. Banerjee, Colloquium: Spin-orbit effects in supercon-ducting hybrid structures, Reviews of Modern Physics 

96 , 021003 (2024). 32 

[140] T. Han, Z. Lu, Z. Hadjri, L. Shi, Z. Wu, W. Xu, Y. Yao, A. A. Cotten, O. Sharifi Sedeh, H. Weldeyesus, et al. ,Signatures of chiral superconductivity in rhombohedral graphene, Nature 643 , 654 (2025). [141] Y. Chen, M. S. Scheurer, and C. Schrade, Intrinsic su-perconducting diode effect and nonreciprocal supercon-ductivity in rhombohedral graphene multilayers, Physi-cal Review B 112 , L060505 (2025). [142] F. de Vries, E. Portol´ es, G. Zheng, T. Taniguchi, K. Watanabe, T. Ihn, K. Ensslin, and P. Rickhaus, Gate-defined josephson junctions in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene, Nature Nanotechnology 16 , 760–763 (2021). [143] J. D´ ıez-M´ erida, A. D´ ıez-Carl´ on, S. Yang, Y.-M. Xie, X.-J. Gao, J. Senior, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, X. Lu, A. Higginbotham, et al. , Symmetry-broken josephson junctions and superconducting diodes in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene, Nature Communications 14 ,2396 (2023). [144] A. Rothstein, R. J. Dolleman, L. Klebl, A. Achtermann, F. Volmer, K. Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, F. Hassler, L. Banszerus, B. Beschoten, et al. , Gate-tunable joseph-son diodes in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene, Nano Letters 26 , 2119 (2026). [145] J.-X. Hu, Z.-T. Sun, Y.-M. Xie, and K. Law, Josephson diode effect induced by valley polarization in twisted bilayer graphene, Physical Review Letters 130 , 266003 (2023). [146] M. Alvarado, P. Burset, and A. L. Yeyati, Intrinsic nonmagnetic ϕ 0 josephson junctions in twisted bilayer graphene, Physical Review Research 5, L032033 (2023). [147] Y.-J. Wei, H.-L. Liu, J. Wang, and J.-F. Liu, Super-current rectification effect in graphene-based josephson junctions, Phys. Rev. B 106 , 165419 (2022). [148] M. Heyl, Dynamical quantum phase transitions: a re-view, Reports on Progress in Physics 81 , 054001 (2018). [149] R. Cai, D. Yue, W. Qiao, L. Guo, Z. Chen, X. Xie, X. Jin, and W. Han, Nonreciprocal transport of super-conductivity in a bi/ni bilayer, Physical Review B 108 ,064501 (2023). [150] J. Lee, W. Lee, G.-Y. Kim, Y.-B. Choi, J. Park, S. Jang, G. Gu, S.-Y. Choi, G. Y. Cho, G.-H. Lee, et al. , Twisted van der waals josephson junction based on a high-t c superconductor, Nano Letters 21 , 10469 (2021). [151] S. F. Zhao, X. Cui, P. A. Volkov, H. Yoo, S. Lee, J. A. Gardener, A. J. Akey, R. Engelke, Y. Ronen, R. Zhong, 

et al. , Time-reversal symmetry breaking superconduc-tivity between twisted cuprate superconductors, Science 

382 , 1422 (2023). [152] S. Ghosh, V. Patil, A. Basu, Kuldeep, A. Dutta, D. A. Jangade, R. Kulkarni, A. Thamizhavel, J. F. Steiner, F. von Oppen, et al. , High-temperature josephson diode, Nature Materials 23 , 612 (2024). [153] T. Oh and N. Nagaosa, Nonreciprocal transport in u (1) gauge theory of high-t c cuprates, Physical Review B 110 , 134507 (2024). [154] S. Qi, J. Ge, C. Ji, Y. Ai, G. Ma, Z. Wang, Z. Cui, Y. Liu, Z. Wang, and J. Wang, High-temperature field-free superconducting diode effect in high-t c cuprates, Nature Communications 16 , 531 (2025). [155] S. G¨ unzler, J. Beck, D. Rieger, N. Gosling, N. Zap-ata, M. Field, S. Geisert, A. Bacher, J. K. Hohmann, M. Spiecker, et al. , Spin environment of a superconduct-ing qubit in high magnetic fields, Nature Communica-tions 16 , 9564 (2025). [156] M. N. I. Khan, A. S. Iyengar, and S. Ghosh, Novel mag-netic burn-in for retention and magnetic tolerance test-ing of sttram, IEEE Transactions on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems 26 , 1508 (2018). [157] A. Leblanc, C. Tangchingchai, Z. S. Momtaz, E. Kiyooka, J.-M. Hartmann, G. T. Fernandez-Bada, Z. Scher¨ ubl, B. Brun, V. Schmitt, S. Zihlmann, et al. ,From nonreciprocal to charge-4e supercurrent in ge-based josephson devices with tunable harmonic content, Physical Review Research 6, 033281 (2024). [158] W. Mayer, M. C. Dartiailh, J. Yuan, K. S. Wickramas-inghe, E. Rossi, and J. Shabani, Gate controlled anoma-lous phase shift in al/inas josephson junctions, Nature communications 11 , 1 (2020). [159] M. Kayyalha, A. Kazakov, I. Miotkowski, S. Khleb-nikov, L. P. Rokhinson, and Y. P. Chen, Highly skewed current–phase relation in superconductor– topological insulator–superconductor josephson junc-tions, npj Quantum Materials 5, 1 (2020). [160] C. Sun, J. B. Tjernshaugen, and J. Linder, Voltage-tunable spin supercurrent nonreciprocity reaching 100% efficiency, Physical Review B 112 , 064504 (2025). [161] F. Paolucci, G. De Simoni, and F. Giazotto, A gate-and flux-controlled supercurrent diode effect, Applied Physics Letters 122 , 042601 (2023). [162] M. Gupta, G. V. Graziano, M. Pendharkar, J. T. Dong, C. P. Dempsey, C. Palmstrøm, and V. S. Pribiag, Gate-tunable superconducting diode effect in a three-terminal josephson device, Nature communications 14 ,3078 (2023). [163] J. Xiong, J. Xie, B. Cheng, Y. Dai, X. Cui, L. Wang, Z. Liu, J. Zhou, N. Wang, X. Xu, et al. , Electrical switching of ising-superconducting nonreciprocity for quantum neuronal transistor, Nature Communications 

15 , 4953 (2024). [164] E. C.-H. Lu, C.-T. Cheng, L. Li, and W.-L. Lee, Full electric-field tuning of the nonreciprocal transport effect in massive chiral fermions with trigonal warping, Phys. Rev. Research 3, 033160 (2021). [165] G. Taras and M. K. Vladimir, Demonstration of a su-perconducting diode-with-memory, operational at zero magnetic field with switchable nonreciprocity, Nature Communications 13 , 3658 (2022). [166] Y. He, J. Li, Q. Wang, H. Matsuki, and G. Yang, Spin-related superconducting devices for logic and memory applications, Advanced Devices & Instrumentation 4,0035 (2023). [167] Z. Wu, H. Chen, M. Long, D. Shaffer, D. V. Chichi-nadze, A. Cabala, T. I. Weinberger, A. J. Hickey, J. Pu, D. Graf, et al. , Discovery of an electrically-controllable superconducting memory effect, arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.02450 (2026). [168] C. I. L. d. Araujo, P. Virtanen, M. Spies, C. Gonz´ alez-Orellana, S. Kerschbaumer, M. Ilyn, C. Rogero, T. T. Heikkil¨ a, F. Giazotto, and E. Strambini, Superconduct-ing spintronic heat engine, Nature Communications 15 ,4823 (2024). [169] E. Strambini, A. Iorio, O. Durante, R. Citro, C. Sanz-Fern´ andez, C. Guarcello, I. V. Tokatly, A. Braggio, M. Rocci, N. Ligato, et al. , A josephson phase battery, Nature Nanotechnology 15 , 656 (2020). [170] E. Zhang, X. Xu, Y. Zou, L. Ai, X. Dong, C. Huang, P. Leng, S. Liu, Y. Zhang, Z. Jia, X. Peng, M. Zhao, 33 

Y. Yang, Z. Li, H. Guo, S. Haigh, N. Nagaosa, J. Shen, and F. Xiu, Nonreciprocal superconducting nbse2 an-tenna, Nature Communications 11 , 5634 (2020). [171] Z. Geng, A. Hijano, S. Ili´ c, M. Ilyn, I. Maasilta, A. Monfardini, M. Spies, E. Strambini, P. Virtanen, M. Calvo, et al. , Superconductor-ferromagnet hybrids for non-reciprocal electronics and detectors, Supercon-ductor Science and Technology 36 , 123001 (2023). [172] M. Castellani, O. Medeiros, A. Buzzi, R. A. Foster, M. Colangelo, and K. K. Berggren, A superconducting full-wave bridge rectifier, Nature Electronics 8, 417–425 (2025). [173] J. Ingla-Ayn´ es, Y. Hou, S. Wang, E.-D. Chu, O. A. Mukhanov, P. Wei, and J. S. Moodera, Efficient super-conducting diodes and rectifiers for quantum circuitry, Nature Electronics 8, 411–416 (2025). [174] H. Zhong, D. Kochan, I. Zutic, and Y. Wu, Twisted su-perconducting quantum diodes: Towards anharmonic-ity and high fidelity, arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.19627 (2025). [175] N. Dirnegger, P. Narang, and A. Arora, Nonrecipro-cal quantum information processing with superconduct-ing diodes in circuit quantum electrodynamics, arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.20758 (2025). [176] G. Hu, Y. Han, H. Guo, S. Lv, T. Gao, Y. Wang, Z. Zhao, K. Zhu, Q. Qi, G. Xian, et al. , Polarity-reversible zero-field diode effect in van der waals fer-romagnetic josephson junction for logic operation, Ad-vanced Materials , e13434 (2025). [177] X. Zhao, Y. Xing, J. Cao, S. Liu, W.-X. Cui, and H.-F. Wang, Engineering quantum diode in one-dimensional time-varying superconducting circuits, npj Quantum In-formation 9, 59 (2023). [178] Y. Zhang, J. Cai, P. Dong, J. He, Y. Ding, J. Wang, X. Zhou, K. Cao, Y. Wu, and J. Li, Intrinsic supercur-rent diode effect in nbse¡sub¿2¡/sub¿ nanobridge, Mi-crostructures 4 (2024). [179] P. Chen, J. Wang, G. Wang, B. Ye, L. Zhou, L. Wang, J. Wang, W. Zhang, W. Chen, J. Mei, et al. , Asymmet-ric edge supercurrents in mote 2 josephson junctions, Nanoscale Advances 6, 690 (2024). [180] Y.-Y. Lyu, J. Jiang, Y.-L. Wang, Z.-L. Xiao, S. Dong, Q.-H. Chen, M. Miloˇ sevi´ c, H. Wang, R. Divan, J. Pear-son, P. Wu, F. Peeters, and W.-K. Kwok, Supercon-ducting diode effect via conformal-mapped nanoholes, Nature Communications 12 , 2703 (2021). [181] D. Wickramaratne, S. Khmelevskyi, D. F. Agterberg, and I. I. Mazin, Ising superconductivity and magnetism in nbse 2, Phys. Rev. X 10 , 041003 (2020). [182] J. R. Johansson, P. D. Nation, and F. Nori, Qutip: An open-source python framework for the dynamics of open quantum systems, Computer physics communications 

183 , 1760 (2012). [183] D. Kafri, C. Quintana, Y. Chen, A. Shabani, J. M. Mar-tinis, and H. Neven, Tunable inductive coupling of su-perconducting qubits in the strongly nonlinear regime, Physical Review A 95 , 052333 (2017). [184] L. Labarca, O. Benhayoune-Khadraoui, A. Blais, and A. Parra-Rodriguez, Toolbox for nonreciprocal disper-sive models in circuit quantum electrodynamics, Physi-cal Review Applied 22 , 034038 (2024). [185] Y.-M. Ren, X.-F. Pan, X.-Y. Yao, X.-W. Huo, J.-C. Zheng, X.-L. Hei, Y.-F. Qiao, and P.-B. Li, Nonrecip-rocal interaction and entanglement between two super-conducting qubits, Physical Review Research 7, 023287 (2025). [186] N. Bergeal, F. Schackert, M. Metcalfe, R. Vijay, V. Manucharyan, L. Frunzio, D. Prober, R. Schoelkopf, S. Girvin, and M. Devoret, Phase-preserving amplifi-cation near the quantum limit with a josephson ring modulator, Nature 465 , 64 (2010). [187] N. Bergeal, R. Vijay, V. Manucharyan, I. Siddiqi, R. Schoelkopf, S. Girvin, and M. Devoret, Analog infor-mation processing at the quantum limit with a joseph-son ring modulator, Nature Physics 6, 296 (2010). [188] B. Abdo, A. Kamal, and M. Devoret, Nondegenerate three-wave mixing with the josephson ring modulator, Physical Review B 87 , 014508 (2013). [189] N. Frattini, U. Vool, S. Shankar, A. Narla, K. Sliwa, and M. Devoret, 3-wave mixing josephson dipole element, Applied Physics Letters 110 (2017). [190] N. Frattini, V. Sivak, A. Lingenfelter, S. Shankar, and M. Devoret, Optimizing the nonlinearity and dissipa-tion of a snail parametric amplifier for dynamic range, Physical Review Applied 10 , 054020 (2018). [191] V. Sivak, N. Frattini, V. Joshi, A. Lingenfelter, S. Shankar, and M. Devoret, Kerr-free three-wave mix-ing in superconducting quantum circuits, Physical Re-view Applied 11 , 054060 (2019). [192] A. Miano, G. Liu, V. Sivak, N. Frattini, V. Joshi, W. Dai, L. Frunzio, and M. Devoret, Frequency-tunable kerr-free three-wave mixing with a gradiometric snail, Applied Physics Letters 120 (2022). [193] M. A. Castellanos-Beltran, K. Irwin, G. Hilton, L. Vale, and K. Lehnert, Amplification and squeezing of quan-tum noise with a tunable josephson metamaterial, Na-ture Physics 4, 929 (2008). [194] C. Schrade and V. Fatemi, Dissipationless nonlinearity in quantum material josephson diodes, Physical Review Applied 21 , 064029 (2024). [195] A. Zorin, Josephson traveling-wave parametric ampli-fier with three-wave mixing, Physical Review Applied 

6, 034006 (2016). [196] D. Kochan and C. Strunk, Low-loss electronics with su-perconducting diodes, Nature Electronics , 1 (2025). [197] D. Rossini, G. M. Andolina, D. Rosa, M. Carrega, and M. Polini, Quantum advantage in the charging process of sachdev-ye-kitaev batteries, Physical Review Letters 

125 , 236402 (2020). [198] S. Juli` a-Farr´ e, T. Salamon, A. Riera, M. N. Bera, and M. Lewenstein, Bounds on the capacity and power of quantum batteries, Physical Review Research 2, 023113 (2020). [199] D. Ferraro, F. Cavaliere, M. G. Genoni, G. Benenti, and M. Sassetti, Opportunities and challenges of quantum batteries, Nature Reviews Physics , 1 (2026). [200] F. Campaioli, S. Gherardini, J. Q. Quach, M. Polini, and G. M. Andolina, Colloquium: quantum batteries, Reviews of Modern Physics 96 , 031001 (2024). [201] Y. Kurman, K. Hymas, A. Fedorov, W. J. Munro, and J. Quach, Powering quantum computation with quan-tum batteries, Physical Review X 16 , 011016 (2026). [202] A. Camposeo, T. Virgili, F. Lombardi, G. Cerullo, D. Pisignano, and M. Polini, Quantum batteries: Amaterials science perspective, Advanced Materials 37 ,2415073 (2025). [203] J. Q. Quach, G. Cerullo, and T. Virgili, Quantum bat-teries: The future of energy storage?, Joule 7, 2195 34 

(2023). [204] G. M. Andolina, V. Stanzione, V. Giovannetti, and M. Polini, Genuine quantum advantage in anharmonic bosonic quantum batteries, Physical Review Letters 

134 , 240403 (2025). [205] C. Downing and M. Ukhtary, Energy storage in acontinuous-variable quantum battery with nonlinear coupling, Physical Review E 112 , 044143 (2025). [206] B. Ahmadi, P. Mazurek, P. Horodecki, and S. Barzan-jeh, Nonreciprocal quantum batteries, Physical Review Letters 132 , 210402 (2024). [207] N. A. Khan, X. Zhang, C. Huang, Y. Liu, and D. He, Collective enhancement in nonreciprocal multimode quantum batteries, Physical Review B 112 , 104318 (2025). [208] Y. Guo, L. Cao, and J. Zhao, Nonreciprocal open quan-tum battery network in a photonic waveguide array, Physical Review A 111 , 063520 (2025). [209] C.-Z. Sun, Z.-K. Wang, W.-B. Yan, Y.-J. Zhang, Z.-X. Man, and Q.-Y. Cai, Nonreciprocal charging in a quan-tum battery via a mediator, Physical Review A 112 ,012429 (2025). [210] H.-W. Zhao, Y. Xie, X. Huang, and G.-F. Zhang, Enhanced charging in multibattery systems by nonre-ciprocity, Physical Review A 112 , 022214 (2025). [211] M. Z. Zafar and M. Irfan, Loss-induced nonreciprocal quantum battery, Advanced Quantum Technologies 9,e00845 (2026). [212] Q.-Y. Lin, G.-Z. Ye, C. Li, W.-J. Su, and H.-Z. Wu, Enhanced charging power in nonreciprocal quantum battery by reservoir engineering, Physica Scripta 101 ,025104 (2026). [213] G. M. Andolina, D. Farina, A. Mari, V. Pellegrini, V. Giovannetti, and M. Polini, Charger-mediated en-ergy transfer in exactly solvable models for quantum batteries, Physical Review B 98 , 205423 (2018). [214] G. M. Andolina, M. Keck, A. Mari, V. Giovannetti, and M. Polini, Quantum versus classical many-body batter-ies, Physical Review B 99 , 205437 (2019). [215] D. Farina, G. M. Andolina, A. Mari, M. Polini, and V. Giovannetti, Charger-mediated energy transfer for quantum batteries: An open-system approach, Physical Review B 99 , 035421 (2019). [216] L. Mandelstam and I. Tamm, The uncertainty relation between energy and time in nonrelativistic quantum me-chanics, J. Phys. USSR 9, 249 (1945). [217] N. Margolus and L. B. Levitin, The maximum speed of dynamical evolution, Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena 

120 , 188 (1998). [218] V. Giovannetti, S. Lloyd, and L. Maccone, The role of entanglement in dynamical evolution, EPL (Euro-physics Letters) 62 , 615 (2003). [219] S. Deffner and S. Campbell, Quantum speed limits: from heisenberg’s uncertainty principle to optimal quan-tum control, Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 50 , 453001 (2017). [220] C.-K. Hu, J. Qiu, P. J. Souza, J. Yuan, Y. Zhou, L. Zhang, J. Chu, X. Pan, L. Hu, J. Li, et al. , Op-timal charging of a superconducting quantum battery, Quantum Science & Technology 7, 045018 (2022). [221] G. Gemme, M. Grossi, D. Ferraro, S. Vallecorsa, and M. Sassetti, Ibm quantum platforms: A quantum bat-tery perspective, Batteries 8, 43 (2022). [222] F.-Q. Dou and F.-M. Yang, Superconducting transmon qubit-resonator quantum battery, Physical Review A 

107 , 023725 (2023). [223] S. Elghaayda, A. Ali, S. Al-Kuwari, A. Czerwinski, M. Mansour, and S. Haddadi, Performance of a super-conducting quantum battery, Advanced Quantum Tech-nologies 8, 2400651 (2025). [224] C.-K. Hu, C. Liu, J. Zhao, L. Zhong, Y. Zhou, M. Liu, H. Yuan, Y. Lin, Y. Xu, G. Hu, et al. , Quantum charg-ing advantage in superconducting solid-state batteries, Physical Review Letters 136 , 060401 (2026). [225] S. Pal and C. Benjamin, Quantized josephson phase bat-tery, Europhysics Letters 126 , 57002 (2019). [226] D. Ferraro, M. Campisi, G. M. Andolina, V. Pelle-grini, and M. Polini, High-power collective charging of a solid-state quantum battery, Physical review letters 

120 , 117702 (2018). [227] R. H. Dicke, Coherence in spontaneous radiation pro-cesses, Physical review 93 , 99 (1954). [228] V. Rosenhaus, An introduction to the syk model, Jour-nal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical 52 ,323001 (2019). [229] A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R.-S. Huang, J. Majer, S. Kumar, S. M. Girvin, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Strong coupling of a single photon to a su-perconducting qubit using circuit quantum electrody-namics, Nature 431 , 162 (2004). [230] A. Chew, A. Essin, and J. Alicea, Approximating the sachdev-ye-kitaev model with majorana wires, Physical Review B 96 , 121119 (2017). [231] D. Pikulin and M. Franz, Black hole on a chip: Proposal for a physical realization of the sachdev-ye-kitaev model in a solid-state system, Physical Review X 7, 031006 (2017). [232] A. Armour, M. Blencowe, E. Brahimi, and A. Rimberg, Universal quantum fluctuations of a cavity mode driven by a josephson junction, Physical review letters 111 ,247001 (2013). [233] F. Bergeret and I. Tokatly, Theory of diffusive φ 0josephson junctions in the presence of spin-orbit cou-pling, Europhysics Letters 110 , 57005 (2015). [234] S. Reinhardt, T. Ascherl, A. Costa, J. Berger, S. Gronin, G. C. Gardner, T. Lindemann, M. J. Manfra, J. Fabian, D. Kochan, et al. , Link between supercurrent diode and anomalous josephson effect revealed by gate-controlled interferometry, Nature Communications 15 ,4413 (2024). [235] M. Roig, P. Kotetes, and B. M. Andersen, Supercon-ducting diodes from magnetization gradients, Physical Review B 109 , 144503 (2024). [236] L. R. Cadorim, E. Sardella, and C. C. d. S. Silva, Har-nessing the superconducting diode effect through in-homogeneous magnetic fields, Physical Review Applied 

21 , 054040 (2024). [237] M. Davydova, M. Geier, and L. Fu, Nonreciprocal su-perconductivity, Science Advances 10 , eadr4817 (2024). [238] D. S. Holmes, A. L. Ripple, and M. A. Manheimer, Energy-efficient superconducting computing—power budgets and requirements, IEEE Transactions on Ap-plied Superconductivity 23 , 1701610 (2013). [239] I. I. Soloviev, N. V. Klenov, S. V. Bakurskiy, M. Y. Kupriyanov, A. L. Gudkov, and A. S. Sidorenko, Be-yond moore’s technologies: operation principles of a su-perconductor alternative, Beilstein journal of nanotech-nology 8, 2689 (2017). 35 

[240] Y. Zhou, S. Li, X. Liang, and Y. Zhou, Topological spin textures: Basic physics and devices, Advanced Materi-als 37 , 2312935 (2025). [241] S. Chen, J. Lourembam, P. Ho, A. K. Toh, J. Huang, X. Chen, H. K. Tan, S. L. Yap, R. J. Lim, H. R. Tan, 

et al. , All-electrical skyrmionic magnetic tunnel junc-tion, Nature 627 , 522 (2024). [242] S. Alam, M. S. Hossain, S. R. Srinivasa, and A. Aziz, Cryogenic memory technologies, Nature Electronics 6,185 (2023). [243] S. S. Tannu, D. M. Carmean, and M. K. Qureshi, Cryogenic-dram based memory system for scalable quantum computers: A feasibility study, in Proceed-ings of the International Symposium on Memory Sys-tems (2017) pp. 189–195. [244] J. Hornibrook, J. Colless, I. Conway Lamb, S. Pauka, H. Lu, A. Gossard, J. Watson, G. Gardner, S. Fallahi, M. Manfra, et al. , Cryogenic control architecture for large-scale quantum computing, Physical Review Ap-plied 3, 024010 (2015). [245] T. Golod, A. Iovan, and V. M. Krasnov, Single abrikosov vortices as quantized information bits, Nature commu-nications 6, 8628 (2015). [246] H. Plattner and A. Zeier, In-memory data management: technology and applications (Springer Science & Busi-ness Media, 2012). [247] S. S. Parkin, M. Hayashi, and L. Thomas, Magnetic domain-wall racetrack memory, science 320 , 190 (2008). [248] N. Ligato, E. Strambini, F. Paolucci, and F. Giazotto, Preliminary demonstration of a persistent josephson phase-slip memory cell with topological protection, Na-ture communications 12 , 5200 (2021). [249] V. K. Semenov, Y. A. Polyakov, and S. K. Tolpygo, Very large scale integration of josephson-junction-based superconductor random access memories, IEEE Trans-actions on Applied Superconductivity 29 , 1 (2019). [250] J. Matisoo, The tunneling cryotron—a superconductive logic element based on electron tunneling, Proceedings of the IEEE 55 , 172 (1967). [251] D. A. Buck, The cryotron-a superconductive computer component, Proceedings of the IRE 44 , 482 (1956). [252] J. Zmuidzinas, Superconducting microresonators: Physics and applications, Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 3, 169 (2012). [253] C. R. H. McRae, H. Wang, J. Gao, M. R. Vissers, T. Brecht, A. Dunsworth, D. P. Pappas, and J. Mutus, Materials loss measurements using superconducting mi-crowave resonators, Review of Scientific Instruments 91 

(2020). [254] A. Gurevich, Tuning microwave losses in superconduct-ing resonators, Superconductor Science and Technology 

36 , 063002 (2023). [255] P. K. Day, H. G. LeDuc, B. A. Mazin, A. Vayonakis, and J. Zmuidzinas, A broadband superconducting detector suitable for use in large arrays, Nature 425 , 817 (2003). [256] M. Castellanos-Beltran and K. Lehnert, Widely tun-able parametric amplifier based on a superconducting quantum interference device array resonator, Applied Physics Letters 91 (2007). [257] M. G¨ oppl, A. Fragner, M. Baur, R. Bianchetti, S. Fil-ipp, J. M. Fink, P. J. Leek, G. Puebla, L. Steffen, and A. Wallraff, Coplanar waveguide resonators for circuit quantum electrodynamics, Journal of Applied Physics 

104 (2008). [258] A. Palacios-Laloy, F. Nguyen, F. Mallet, P. Bertet, D. Vion, and D. Esteve, Tunable resonators for quan-tum circuits, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 151 ,1034 (2008). [259] O. Kennedy, J. Burnett, J. Fenton, N. Constantino, P. Warburton, J. Morton, and E. Dupont-Ferrier, Tun-able nb superconducting resonator based on a constric-tion nano-squid fabricated with a ne focused ion beam, Physical Review Applied 11 , 014006 (2019). [260] J. Healey, T. Lindstr¨ om, M. Colclough, C. Muirhead, and A. Y. Tzalenchuk, Magnetic field tuning of copla-nar waveguide resonators, Applied Physics Letters 93 

(2008). [261] M. R. Vissers, J. Hubmayr, M. Sandberg, S. Chaudhuri, C. Bockstiegel, and J. Gao, Frequency-tunable super-conducting resonators via nonlinear kinetic inductance, Applied Physics Letters 107 (2015). [262] C. N. Thomas, S. Withington, Z. Sun, T. Skyrme, and D. J. Goldie, Nonlinear effects in superconducting thin film microwave resonators, New Journal of Physics 22 ,073028 (2020). [263] B. Ho Eom, P. K. Day, H. G. LeDuc, and J. Zmuidzinas, A wideband, low-noise superconducting amplifier with high dynamic range, Nature Physics 8, 623 (2012). [264] S. Zhao, S. Withington, D. J. Goldie, and C. N. Thomas, Nonlinear properties of supercurrent-carrying single-and multi-layer thin-film superconductors, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 199 , 34 (2020). [265] M. Khabipov, V. Gaydamachenko, C. Kissling, R. Dolata, and A. Zorin, Superconducting microwave resonators with non-centrosymmetric nonlinearity, Su-perconductor Science and Technology 35 , 065020 (2022). [266] W. M. Strickland, B. H. Elfeky, J. O. Yuan, W. F. Schiela, P. Yu, D. Langone, M. G. Vavilov, V. E. Manucharyan, and J. Shabani, Superconducting res-onators with voltage-controlled frequency and nonlin-earity, Physical Review Applied 19 , 034021 (2023). [267] Z. Velluire-Pellat, E. Mar´ echal, N. Moulonguet, G. Sa¨ ız, G. M´ enard, S. Kozlov, F. Cou¨ edo, P. Amari, C. Medous, J. Paris, et al. , Hybrid quantum systems with high-t c superconducting resonators, Scientific reports 13 , 14366 (2023). [268] A. Ghirri, C. Bonizzoni, F. Troiani, N. Buccheri, L. Bev-erina, A. Cassinese, and M. Affronte, Coherently cou-pling distinct spin ensembles through a high-t c super-conducting resonator, Physical Review A 93 , 063855 (2016). [269] A. Ghirri, C. Bonizzoni, D. Gerace, S. Sanna, A. Cassi-nese, and M. Affronte, Yba2cu3o7 microwave resonators for strong collective coupling with spin ensembles, Ap-plied Physics Letters 106 (2015). [270] P. Krantz, M. Kjaergaard, F. Yan, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and W. D. Oliver, A quantum engineer’s guide to superconducting qubits, Applied physics re-views 6 (2019). [271] M. Xiao, I. Martin, E. Yablonovitch, and H. Jiang, Elec-trical detection of the spin resonance of a single elec-tron in a silicon field-effect transistor, Nature 430 , 435 (2004). [272] A. Bienfait, J. Pla, Y. Kubo, M. Stern, X. Zhou, C. Lo, C. Weis, T. Schenkel, M. Thewalt, D. Vion, et al. ,Reaching the quantum limit of sensitivity in electron spin resonance, Nature nanotechnology 11 , 253 (2016). 36 

[273] T. J. Kippenberg and K. J. Vahala, Cavity optome-chanics: back-action at the mesoscale, science 321 , 1172 (2008). [274] J. D. Teufel, T. Donner, D. Li, J. W. Harlow, M. All-man, K. Cicak, A. J. Sirois, J. D. Whittaker, K. W. Lehnert, and R. W. Simmonds, Sideband cooling of mi-cromechanical motion to the quantum ground state, Na-ture 475 , 359 (2011). [275] E. W. Bryerton, M. Morgan, and M. W. Pospieszalski, Ultra low noise cryogenic amplifiers for radio astronomy, in 2013 IEEE Radio and Wireless Symposium (IEEE, 2013) pp. 358–360. [276] D. M. Smith, L. Bakker, R. H. Witvers, B. E. Woesten-burg, and K. D. Palmer, Low noise amplifier for ra-dio astronomy, International Journal of Microwave and Wireless Technologies 5, 453 (2013). [277] M. W. Pospieszalski, Extremely low-noise cryogenic am-plifiers for radio astronomy: Past, present and future, in 2018 22nd International Microwave and Radar Con-ference (MIKON) (IEEE, 2018) pp. 1–6. [278] G. Rybka, A. Collaboration, et al. , Direct detection searches for axion dark matter, Physics of the Dark Uni-verse 4, 14 (2014). [279] A. Caldwell, G. Dvali, B. Majorovits, A. Millar, G. Raf-felt, J. Redondo, O. Reimann, F. Simon, F. Steffen, and M. W. Group), Dielectric haloscopes: A new way to detect axion dark matter, Physical review letters 118 ,091801 (2017). [280] J. Jeong, S. Youn, S. Bae, J. Kim, T. Seong, J. E. Kim, and Y. K. Semertzidis, Search for invisible axion dark matter with a multiple-cell haloscope, Physical Review Letters 125 , 221302 (2020). [281] K. M. Backes, D. A. Palken, S. A. Kenany, B. M. Brubaker, S. Cahn, A. Droster, G. C. Hilton, S. Ghosh, H. Jackson, S. K. Lamoreaux, et al. , A quantum en-hanced search for dark matter axions, Nature 590 , 238 (2021). [282] J. Aumentado, Superconducting parametric amplifiers: The state of the art in josephson parametric amplifiers, IEEE Microwave magazine 21 , 45 (2020). [283] M. Esposito, A. Ranadive, L. Planat, and N. Roch, Per-spective on traveling wave microwave parametric ampli-fiers, Applied Physics Letters 119 (2021). [284] M. Hatridge, R. Vijay, D. Slichter, J. Clarke, and I. Siddiqi, Dispersive magnetometry with a quan-tum limited squid parametric amplifier, Physical Re-view B—Condensed Matter and Materials Physics 83 ,134501 (2011). [285] N. Roch, E. Flurin, F. Nguyen, P. Morfin, P. Campagne-Ibarcq, M. H. Devoret, and B. Huard, Widely tunable, nondegenerate three-wave mixing microwave device op-erating¡? format?¿ near the quantum limit, Physical review letters 108 , 147701 (2012). [286] C. Macklin, K. O’brien, D. Hover, M. Schwartz, V. Bolkhovsky, X. Zhang, W. Oliver, and I. Siddiqi, A near–quantum-limited josephson traveling-wave para-metric amplifier, Science 350 , 307 (2015). [287] C. M. Caves, Quantum limits on noise in linear ampli-fiers, Physical Review D 26 , 1817 (1982). [288] A. A. Clerk, M. H. Devoret, S. M. Girvin, F. Marquardt, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Introduction to quantum noise, measurement, and amplification, Reviews of Modern Physics 82 , 1155 (2010). [289] J. Heinsoo, C. K. Andersen, A. Remm, S. Krinner, T. Walter, Y. Salath´ e, S. Gasparinetti, J.-C. Besse, A. Potoˇ cnik, A. Wallraff, et al. , Rapid high-fidelity mul-tiplexed readout of superconducting qubits, Physical Review Applied 10 , 034040 (2018). [290] A. Ranadive, B. Fazliji, G. Le Gal, G. Cappelli, G. But-seraen, E. Bonet, E. Eyraud, S. B¨ ohling, L. Planat, A. Metelmann, et al. , A travelling-wave parametric am-plifier isolator, Nature Electronics , 1 (2025). [291] C. Guarcello, C. Barone, G. Carapella, G. Filatrella, A. Giachero, and S. Pagano, Effect of a second-harmonic current–phase relation on the behavior of a josephson traveling-wave parametric amplifier, Applied Physics Letters 126 (2025). [292] D. M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering (John wiley & sons, 2024). [293] R. Haenel and O. Can, Superconducting diode from flux biased josephson junction arrays, arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.02657 (2022). [294] F. D. M. Haldane, Model for a quantum hall effect without landau levels: Condensed-matter realization of the” parity anomaly”, Physical review letters 61 , 2015 (1988). [295] H. Weng, R. Yu, X. Hu, X. Dai, and Z. Fang, Quantum anomalous hall effect and related topological electronic states, Advances in Physics 64 , 227 (2015). [296] C.-X. Liu, S.-C. Zhang, and X.-L. Qi, The quantum anomalous hall effect: theory and experiment, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 7, 301 (2016). [297] B. Shabbir, M. Nadeem, Z. Dai, M. S. Fuhrer, Q.-K. Xue, X. Wang, and Q. Bao, Long range intrinsic fer-romagnetism in two dimensional materials and dissipa-tionless future technologies, Applied Physics Reviews 5

(2018). [298] M. Nadeem, A. R. Hamilton, M. S. Fuhrer, and X. Wang, Quantum anomalous hall effect in magnetic doped topological insulators and ferromagnetic spin-gapless semiconductors—a perspective review, Small 

16 , 1904322 (2020). [299] B. A. Bernevig, C. Felser, and H. Beidenkopf, Progress and prospects in magnetic topological materials, Nature 

603 , 41 (2022). [300] C.-Z. Chang, C.-X. Liu, and A. H. MacDonald, Col-loquium: Quantum anomalous hall effect, Reviews of Modern Physics 95 , 011002 (2023). [301] M. Nadeem and X. Wang, Spin gapless quantum materi-als and devices, Advanced Materials 36 , 2402503 (2024). [302] C. Leroux, A. Parra-Rodriguez, R. Shillito, A. Di Paolo, W. Oliver, C. Marcus, M. Kjaergaard, A. Gyenis, and A. Blais, Nonreciprocal devices based on voltage-tunable junctions, arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.06194 (2022). [303] A. Fadavi Roudsari, D. Shiri, H. Renberg Nilsson, G. Tancredi, A. Osman, I.-M. Svensson, M. Kudra, M. Rommel, J. Bylander, V. Shumeiko, et al. , Three-wave mixing traveling-wave parametric amplifier with periodic variation of the circuit parameters, Applied Physics Letters 122 (2023). [304] A. Costa, C. Baumgartner, S. Reinhardt, J. Berger, S. Gronin, G. Gardner, T. Lindemann, M. Manfra, J. Fabian, D. Kochan, et al. , Sign reversal of the joseph-son inductance magnetochiral anisotropy and 0– π-like transitions in supercurrent diodes, Nature Nanotechnol-ogy , 1 (2023). [305] A. Barone and G. Paterno, Physics and Applications of 37 

the Josephson Effect , A Wiley-interscience publication (Wiley, 1982). [306] J. M. Martinis, Superconducting qubits and the physics of josephson junctions, in Les Houches , Vol. 79 (Elsevier, 2004) pp. 487–520. [307] A. A. Golubov, M. Y. Kupriyanov, and E. Il’Ichev, The current-phase relation in josephson junctions, Reviews of modern physics 76 , 411 (2004). [308] B. Josephson, Possible new effects in superconductive tunnelling, Physics Letters 1, 251 (1962). [309] T. Yokoyama, M. Eto, and Y. V. Nazarov, Anomalous josephson effect induced by spin-orbit interaction and zeeman effect in semiconductor nanowires, Physical Re-view B 89 , 195407 (2014). [310] C. Beenakker, Universal limit of critical-current fluctua-tions in mesoscopic josephson junctions, Physical review letters 67 , 3836 (1991). [311] F. Solgun, D. P. DiVincenzo, and J. M. Gambetta, Sim-ple impedance response formulas for the dispersive in-teraction rates in the effective hamiltonians of low an-harmonicity superconducting qubits, IEEE transactions on microwave theory and techniques 67 , 928 (2019). [312] H. Yi, L.-H. Hu, Y. Wang, R. Xiao, J. Cai, D. R. Hickey, C. Dong, Y.-F. Zhao, L.-J. Zhou, R. Zhang, 

et al. , Crossover from ising-to rashba-type superconduc-tivity in epitaxial bi2se3/monolayer nbse2 heterostruc-tures, Nature Materials 21 , 1366 (2022). [313] F. Antola, S. Battisti, A. Braggio, F. Giazotto, and G. De Simoni, Streamline-controlled rectification of su-percurrent in thin-film asymmetric weak links, Physical Review Applied 24 , 064003 (2025). [314] Y. Mustafa and S. K¨ ose, Interfacing superconductor and semiconductor digital electronics, arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.09969 (2026). [315] H. G. Giil, B. Brekke, J. Linder, and A. Brataas, Quasi-classical theory of superconducting spin-splitter effects and spin-filtering via altermagnets, Physical Review B 

110 , L140506 (2024). [316] T. Heikkil¨ a, R. Ojaj¨ arvi, I. Maasilta, E. Strambini, F. Giazotto, and F. Bergeret, Thermoelectric radiation detector based on superconductor-ferromagnet systems, Physical Review Applied 10 , 034053 (2018). [317] G. Wang and L. Lu, Topological microwave isolator with¿ 100-db isolation, Nature Photonics 19 , 1064 (2025). [318] B. J. Chapman, E. I. Rosenthal, J. Kerckhoff, B. A. Moores, L. R. Vale, J. Mates, G. C. Hilton, K. Lalu-miere, A. Blais, and K. Lehnert, Widely tunable on-chip microwave circulator for superconducting quantum cir-cuits, Physical Review X 7, 041043 (2017). [319] L. Ranzani and J. Aumentado, Circulators at the quan-tum limit: Recent realizations of quantum-limited su-perconducting circulators and related approaches, IEEE Microwave Magazine 20 , 112 (2019). [320] F. S. Bergeret, M. Silaev, P. Virtanen, and T. T. Heikkil¨ a, Colloquium: Nonequilibrium effects in super-conductors with a spin-splitting field, Reviews of Mod-ern Physics 90 , 041001 (2018). [321] A. Ozaeta, P. Virtanen, F. S. Bergeret, and T. Heikkil¨ a, Predicted very large thermoelectric effect in ferromagnet-superconductor junctions in the presence of a spin-splitting magnetic field, Physical review letters 

112 , 057001 (2014). [322] R. Kealhofer, H. Jeong, A. Rashidi, L. Balents, and S. Stemmer, Anomalous superconducting diode effect in a polar superconductor, Physical Review B 107 ,L100504 (2023).