Title: 2604.28077v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.28077v1

Published Time: Fri, 01 May 2026 01:12:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 32

Markdown Content:
1

## Local prob ing of superconductivity at oxide interfaces with atomic force 

## microscopy 

Dilek Yildiz 1,2,3,*,† , Sungmin Kim 1,2,* , Dengyu Yang 1,2,4,* , Muqing Yu 4,* , Kyoungjun Lee 5, Ruiqi 

Sun 5, En -Min Shih 1,6 , Steven R. Blankenship 1, Patrick Irvin 4, Franz J. Giessibl 7, Chang -Beom 

Eom 5, Jeremy Levy 4, and Joseph A. Stroscio 1,† 

> 1

Physical Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology; 

Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA. 

> 2

Joint Quantum Institute, Department of Physics, University of Maryland; College Park, MD 

20742, USA 

> 3

Department of Advanced Material Science, The University of Tokyo; Chiba 277 -8561, Japan. 

> 4

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 

15260, USA 

> 5

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Wisconsin –Madison; Madison, 

Wisconsin 53706, USA 

> 6

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Maryland; College Park, MD 20742, 

USA. 

> 7

Institute of Experimental and Applied Physics, University of Regensburg; Regensburg 93040, 

Germany 

> *

These authors contributed equally to this work. 

> †

Corresponding authors: yildiz @g.ecc.u -tokyo.ac.jp, joseph.stroscio@nist.gov 

Abstract: Superconductivity in strontium titanate has remained enigmatic for over 50 years. The 

LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 (LAO/STO) heterointerface enables systematic dimensional confinement , from 

two -dimensional electron gas to quasi -one -dimensional nanostructures , providing unprecedented 

access to this quantum state. While t ransport measurements in patterned devices reveal puzzling 

phenomena , including width -independent critical currents and anomalous pairing, suggesting one -

dimensional behavior, direct local probes for the patterned interface and its superconducting 

response have remained lacking. Here , we use ultra -low temperature non -contact atomic force 

microscopy with dissipation spectroscopy and Kelvin probe force microscopy to locally probe 

signatures of superconductivity in patterned LAO/STO devices. Spatially resolved energy 

dissipation measurements reveal signatures of superconductivi ty with some features confined to 2

edge channels of order ≈200 nm in width . Dissipation spectra exhibit a characteristic nonlinear 

bias dependence that provides a local diagnostic of superconductivity consistent with the 

intermediate carrier density near the superconducting dome, which persists up to the critical field. 

These results demonstrate the ability of atomic force microscopy to probe superconductivity in 

patterned LAO/STO structures, potentially addressing fundamental, longstanding questions about 

quantum confinement and transport a nomalies in these correlated nanostructures. 

Main Text: 

One of the significant technological advancements of this century is the development of 

semiconductor nanoelectronics, which has opened new possibilities for quantum information 

technologies. Beyond fabricating nanoscale electronic devices, these platforms are essential for 

advancing our understanding of complex quantum systems for investigating key physical 

phenomena, such as superconductivity and strong electron ic correlations. STO, the first known 

superconducting semiconductor, provides a unique platform for such studies, offering a convenient 

route to integra te superconductivity into mesoscopic devices. It has a bandgap of 3.2 eV , but 

becomes superconducting below 300 mK 1. The LAO/STO heterointerface 2 has revolutionized our 

cap ability to probe these mysteries, creating a tunable two -dimensional electron system (2DES) 

that inherits superconductivity from bulk STO 3. T hrough conductive atomic force microscope (c -

AFM) lithography 3,4 and ultra -low -voltage electron beam lithography (ULV -EBL) 5,6 , this 2DES 

can be programmed with sub -10 nm resolution, creating quasi -one -dimensional structures that 

exhibit remarkable quantum phenomena. 

A central unresolved question is whether superconductivity in confined STO geometries 

re tains its two -dimensional nature or becomes fundamentally one -dimensional , a distinction with 

profound implications for both fundamental physics and quantum device engineering . Transport 3

measurements in these nanostructured devices have revealed a constellation of anomalous 

behaviors that defy conventional understanding of superconductivity. Most strikingly, the critical 

current remains independent of channel width 7, a violation of the basic scaling laws expected for 

two -dimensional superconductors. Electron pairing persists far outside of the superconducting 

regime 8, and devices exhibit a Pascal conductance sequence 9 indicating strong pairing of n = 2, 3, 

4,… electrons with in 1D channels . Collectively, t hese observations suggest that the pairing glue 

and associated superconductivity in patterned LAO/STO is fundamentally one -dimensional, 

confined to edge channels regardless of the nominal device geometry. 

To date , direct probing of the superconductivity at the interface has remained challenging 

at ultra -low temperatures. Moreover, microscopic evidence of one -dimensional superconducting 

behavior has remained elusive. Despite extensive studies suggest ing such behavior, these transport 

measurements average over device dimensions and cannot resolve the spatial structure of the 

superconducting state . Previous scanning probe efforts , including scanning quantum interference 

device ( SQUID )10 , scanning single -electron transistor ( SET )11 , near -field optical microscopy 12 ,

and microwave impedance microscopy 13 , have revealed important aspects of the LAO/STO 

system , but none have directly imaged superconductivity at the nanoscale. Crucially , none of these 

techniques was performed at the ultra -low temperatures necessary to probe the superconducting 

state (T c < 300 mK), nor did they possess the spatial resolution and energy sensitivity required to 

distinguish one -dimensional from two -dimensional superconducting channels. This knowledge 

gap has left fundamental questions unanswered: Where precisely is superconductiv ity localized 

within patterned structures? Are the channels truly one -dimensional? How does spatial 

confinement relate to the anomalous transport properties? 4

Here , we directly probe the superconduct ing state in patterned LAO/STO nanostructures 

using ultra -low temperature (10 mK) non -contact atomic force microscopy (AFM) and Kelvin 

probe force microscopy (KPFM) with atomically sharp tips. This approach enables us to image 

superconducting channels with nanometer resolution while simultaneously mea suring local energy 

dissipation —a sensitive probe of the superconducting state. Non -contact dissipation spectroscopy 

is uniquely suited to detect the suppression of ohmic losses characteristic of superconductivity and 

the changes in the dominant dissipation mechanisms channels between normal and 

superconducting regions 14 ,15,16 ,17,18 . By correlating spatial maps of contact potential difference with 

magnetic -field -dependent dissipation measurements, we directly visualize where 

superconductivity resides within nanometer -scale patterned structures at the oxide interface. 

Device patterning and macroscopic transport characterization 

Using established nanoscale patterning methods (see Supplementary Information) , c-AFM 

and ULV -EBL are used to pattern LAO/STO interfaces into superconducting devices, including 

nanowires and electron waveguides, for investigation with ultra -low -temperature scanning probe 

techniques. Device A with 4 unit cells (uc) of LAO is patterned by ULV -EBL (Fig. 1 a), while 

Device B ( 6 uc LAO) is patterned by c-AFM ( Supplementary F ig. 2a). The patterned regions are 

highlighted in green color in Fig. 1 c-d. Each patterned device contains three distinct channel 

geometries: a two -dimensional sheet, a one -dimensional wire, and a waveguide channel (Fig. 1 d).

Device conductance is monitored while patterning ; a sudden increase in conductance is observed 

when a nanowire is written between two electrodes, demonstrating successful selective switching 

of the interface from insulating to conducting (Fig. 1 b and Supplementary Fig. 2b).

After patterning, devices are then carefully transported in vacuum to the millikelvin SPM 

system in order to minimize degradation of the conducting patterns due to atmospher ic exposure 5

(see Supplemental Information) . After cooling the device to cryogenic temperatures (10 mK) , we 

measured its transport properties to benchmark the quality of the nanoscale patterning. The 

current -voltage ( I-V) curves directly measure superconducting properties, and the differential 

resistance ( dV/dI ) as a function of current and magnetic field is examined to extract the critical 

current and field. Figure 1 e and f show the corresponding measurements for (Device A, 4 uc, ULV -

EBL) patterned channels, with the current applied between the upper elec trodes 4 and 5 at 10 mK 

(see Fig. 1 d). Similar measurements were made for a second device patterned by c -AFM ( Device 

B, Supplementary F ig. 4). Both devices show a superconducting critical current ( IC) of 30 nA. 

Critical fields are also determined in both devices , corresponding to the suppression of 

superconductivity .

A four -terminal transconductance map is recorded by varying the source -drain bias and the 

side -gate voltage, revealing the finite -bias spectroscopy measurements from zero to finite 

magnetic field s ( Supplementary F ig. 4c). These results are consistent with similar nanostructures 

fabricated in previous measurements, indicative of the quality of the patterned 2DES 19,20 . In 

summary, the transport measurements confirm the superconducting nature of the patterned 

channels in both devices, consistent with previous reports. 

Scanning probe microscopy measurements 

Local measurements were performed with frequency -modulation non -contact AFM, 

providing spatially resolved topographic and electrostatic information (see Supplemental 

Information ). Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM) measure s the local potential landscape of 

the LAO surface by determining the contact potential difference (CPD) between the LAO/STO 

surface and the AFM probe, as schematically shown in Fig. 2 a and b. We first investigated the 

patterned regions in the ULV -EBL -patterned device (Device A). In the non -contact AFM 6

topography scans, the patterned structures are clearly visible with strong contrast (Fig. 2 c). We 

attribute t he observed contrast to differences in tip –sample interactions between the patterned and 

unpatterned regions , arising from variations in surface work function and local carrier 

concentration within the 2DES. Specifically, the change in CPD will change the frequency shift 

(∆𝑓 ) vs bias voltage curves (Supplementary Fig. 1). Therefore, at fixed bias, variations in  ∆𝑓  result 

in corresponding changes in the measured height ( Z) to keep  ∆𝑓  constant in the AFM feedback 

loop . This is what causes the topographic contrast in Fig. 2c. 

Figure 2 d presents a zoomed -in topographic image of the patterned electrode near the “V” 

intersection outlined by the red -dashed box in Fig. 2 c. Atomically flat terraces separated by single 

unit cell step heights are observed. These stepped terraces result from the STO surface miscut 

angle , which gets imprinted in the LAO growth , demonstrating the high quality of the epitaxially 

grown layer by pulsed laser deposition (PLD) 21,22 . The difference between the lighter and darker 

contrast regions shows the patterned area , forming a “V” shape. The patterning is much more 

dramatic in the CPD map in Fig. 2 e. Here, the CPD value is extracted from individual frequency 

shift vs. sample bias,  (∆𝑓 vs . 𝑉 Bias ), curves obtained at each pixel in the image of Fig. 2 d. These 

curves display a parabolic frequency shift vs . bias where the extrema determine the CPD values 

(Supplementary F ig. 1). A clear gradient is observed across the patterned boundary , indicating 

spatial variation in the contact potential difference around the channel. A maximum CPD 

difference of almost 1.5 V is observed between the patterned and non -patterned areas . No CPD 

variation is seen between the patterned and un patterned area s on the exposed STO surface where 

the LAO layer has been removed (Supplementary Fig. 3), demonstrating the critical role of t he 

LAO layer for creat ing the 2DES .

Electrostatic modeling of the carrier density profile 7

KPFM measurements are sensitive to local potential variations, as schematically defined 

in terms of the CPD shown in Fig. 2 a and b, and were u sed to investigate the local potential 

variations between the patterned (conducting) and non -patterned (non -conducting) regions of the 

LAO/STO heterostructure. Considering that the tip work function  𝜙 tip  remains constant across the 

LAO surface, variations in CPD directly reflect a local work function change on the LAO surface 

(𝜙 LAO  ). Variations in CPD value across the sample are thus attributed to changes in the LAO 

potential landscape, induced by interfacial carrier accumulation and surface dipole modifications 

forming a capacitor with the LAO dielectric in between them 23,24 .

The LAO/STO interface remains insulating in non -patterned regions , with minimal band 

bending , as evidenced from the conductive jump when patterned areas are joined (Fig. 1b) . We 

then associate the change in carrier density in the patterned region,  ∆𝑛 , to be related to the change 

in work function between the patterned and non -patterned regions , as related to the change in CPD 

as 25,26 ,

∆𝜙 CPD = 𝜙 LAO  

> non −patterned

− 𝜙 LAO  

> patterned

≈ 𝑒 ∆𝑛 𝑑 LAO 

𝜀 0𝜀 r

, (1)

where  𝑒  is the elementary charge,  𝑑 LAO  is the thickness of the LAO layer,  𝜀 0 is the permittivity of 

free space . 𝜀 r is the dielectric constant of LAO , which we take from the literature to be  𝜀 r = 25 

> 27,28

. We apply this relation to obtain an upper bound on the carrier density in the ULV -EBL device, 

as it neglects contributions from surface dipole variations .

The LAO/STO system generally exhibits a dome shape in the superconducting critical 

temperature vs. density phase diagram, which can be tuned by electrostatically doping the 

interface 29,30 . Estimates of the carrier density for superconductivity in the LAO/STO interface 

suggest an optimal range from  𝑛 ≈ (1.5 − 6.5) × 10 13 cm −2 29 . We estimate the carrier density 8

variation in the patterned region from the CPD map in Fig. 2 e using equation (1) (Fig. 3a) .

Comparing the non -patterned and patterned areas, the estimated density changes by  ∆𝑛 ≈

1 × 10 14 cm −2. The line trace in Fig. 3 b shows the carrier density profile across one of the 

patterned channels in the “Y” branch. 

Dissipation measurements 

Non -contact AFM dissipation spectroscopy detects nanoscale energy losses (dissipation) 

by measurin g the energy loss per oscillation cycle required to maintain constant sensor oscillation 

amplitude . This dissipation signal reflects the dissipative response of the surfaces and interfaces 

to the oscillating tip's perturbations . In conducting and semiconducting systems , the dominant loss 

channel is electronically driven ohmic dissipation . Superconductivity modifies the losses by 

suppressing ordinary ohmic losses in the sample , making spatially resolved dissipation 

spectroscopy a local diagnostic tool for track ing and mapping superconductivity . In g eneral ,

dissipation spectroscopy can reveal changes in the dominant energy -loss channel across electronic 

or structural transitions, as well as local electronic inhomogeneity. Despite its exquisite sensitivity 

to local electronic states, dissipation spectroscopy has rarely been employed to study oxide 

superconductors at the nanoscale 17,18 .

Local dissipation measurements o f Device A reveal distinct bias -dependent behavior s

between superconducting and non -superconducting regions. Figure 4a shows a zoomed -in region 

of the bottom of the 2D channel indicated by the orange dashed box in Fig. 2c. The patterned area 

is observed by the higher Z contrast ( bri ghter) in the topographic image. To investigate the origin 

of these signals, we perform voltage -dependent dissipation spectroscopy at two representative 

locations: one outside the patterned region (point B) and one inside the conducting channels (point 

A), as marked in Fig. 4 a. The resulting spectra are plotted in Fig. 4 b. These regions exhibit 9

significant spatial variation. Higher dissipation is observed outside the patterned region, even at 

the sample bias corresponding to the CPD (minimum of the curve), where the electrostatic force 

is minimized. In contrast, s ignificantly less energy dissipation is observed inside the patterned 

region. 

We observe that the dissipation has a clear quadratic dependence on bias voltage ( ∝ ∆V²) 

on the dielectric background (point B), and there is a higher dissipation level both at and away 

from the CPD. This behavior is consistent with capacitive energy losses typically observed on 

metallic surfaces due to ohmic dissipation 31 . Similar ohmic losses are present on doped 

semiconductors 17 . The quadratic dependence arises from the scaling of ohmic loss with the 

magnitude of the probe -sample force, and the electrostatic force varies as  ∆𝑉 2 , where  ∆𝑉 =

(𝑉 CPD − 𝑉 Bias ). In contrast, inside the patterned superconducting channels (point A), the baseline 

dissipation and the quadratic contribution are strongly suppressed, while a pronounced higher -

order  ∆𝑉 4 component emerges . As shown in Fig. 4b, it is well described by a composite fit of the 

form  𝛼 ∆𝑉 2 + 𝛽 ∆𝑉 4. Together with the suppressed of  ∆𝑉 2, the emergence of the higher order  ∆𝑉 4

component in the patterned region indicates an additional nonlinear dissipation channel beyond 

simple ohmic -like linear response losses under electrostatic coupling . Similar nonlinear bias 

dependence has been reported in bulk superconducting Nb and attributed to phonon -mediated 

dissipation driven by the electronic coupling of the tip , which becomes prominent when ordinary 

ohmic losses are suppressed in superconducting state 31,32 . We therefore interpret the  ∆𝑉 4

contribution as a robust local marker of superconducti vity , consisting of a spatially resolved 

suppression of low energy excitations due to the quasiparticle gap opening . The presence of a 

smaller but nonzero  ∆𝑉 2 term in the patterned superconducting regions suggests a coexistence of 

dissipation mechanisms. Some possible origins include residual electrostatic coupling from the 10 

finite tip size, incomplete or inhomogeneous superconductivity within the channel, and vertical tip 

oscillation sensitive to out -of -plane fields 23,33 . Additional contributions may also arise from 

quantum capacitance or nonlinear screening at the oxide interface 34 .

The connection of the dissipation signals to the superconducting phase at the oxide 

interface is further investigated using dissipation spectroscopy maps, which are performed across 

a range of magnetic fields and sample biases on the 4 uc sample (Device A). The sample bias was 

swept from -1200 mV to +200 mV while the magnetic field was incrementally tuned from 

−300 mT to + 300 mT  . The resulting two -dimensional dissipation map reveals a strong 

dependence of the damping signal on both sample bias and magnetic field (Fig. 4 c). 

At low magnetic fields ( |𝐵 | ≤ 50 mT ), the dissipation curves maintain a convex shape 

centered at the CPD. As shown in the line cut at -18 mT in Fig. 4 d (red), the curve shows  𝛼 ∆𝑉 2 +

𝛽 ∆𝑉 4 dependence, consistent with the zero -field point spectroscopy measurements in Fig. 4 b. This 

shape is characteristic of superconducting regions where electrostatic energy loss is suppressed by 

the local environment , but not completely eliminated . As the magnetic field approaches to the 

critical field of  ∼200 mT, the dissipation changes dramatically; the curvature reverses and forms 

a concave feature in the dissipation curves and map (see the green curve in Fig. 4 d).

The complete field -dependent evolution of the dissipation is illustrated as a magnetic field 

map in Fig. 4c. Figure 4e displays a vertical line cut at the CPD value, where the dissipation 

exhibits a minimum near zero field . The dissipation then increases with the magnetic field, 

reaching a maximum as it approach es the critical magnetic field, and decreases at higher fields .

This evolution indicates a crossover from a low -dissipation superconducting regime to a more 

dissipative state, likely involving enhanc ed phase fluctuations due to pair breaking of the 11 

superconducting state. The enhanced dissipation around  ≈ ±100 mT can be attributed to the 

enhanced superconducting fluctuations or local phase separation 8,35 .

Interestingly, the crossover (increased dissipation) occurs as the field approaches 200 mT, 

the critical field observed in global transport measurements presented in Fig. 1 e for Device A. This 

demonstrates a direct connection between the dissipation signals and the superconducting state at 

the LAO/STO interface. The dependence of dissipation on sample bias may reflect some 

contribution to local doping of the system. In LAO/STO systems, su perconductivity exhibits a 

dome -shaped dependence on carrier density, with superconductivity emerging above a threshold 

density, peaking at intermediate doping, and weakening at higher densities 29,30 . As a result, local 

deviations from optimal doping can reduce the apparent critical field and enhance phase 

fluctuations, which may account for the dome -shaped dissipation vs . sample bias (Fig. 4c and d). 

Our results indicate that the dissipation is enhanced near the critical field. In Fig. 5, w e

therefore examin e the dissipation across the boundary of the 2D region highlighted in the yellow 

dashed rectangle in Fig. 4 a obtained near the critical magnetic field at -235 mT. The three -

dimensional data set measures the AFM frequency shift and excitation (dissipation) as a function 

of bias and XY spatial position. The CPD is extracted from the frequency shift vs . bias curves and 

is shown in Fig. 5 a. The CPD varies by 0.65 V over the rectangular area, with lower CPD and 

higher carrier density in the upper region corresponding to the patterned region in Fig. 4 a. The 

dissipation results are shown in the Y vs . 𝑉 B plane in the middle of the rectangular region at X =

125 nm in Fig. 5 b. The dissipation curves in the underdoped and overdoped regions display similar 

concave dissipation vs . bias curves (Fig. 5 f red and blue curves) as observed in Fig. 4 d at fields 

near and above the critical field of  ±200  mT, implying a similar dissipation mechanism. The green 12 

curve in Fig. 5 f, however, shows a convex parabolic behavior with  ∆𝑉 4 dependence, resembling 

the green curve in Fig . 4b and the red curve in Fig . 4d.

The spatial dependence of dissipation is obtained from vertical line cuts at selected biases 

from th e 2D map in Fig. 5 b and is then expanded along the X dimension, as shown in Fig. 5 c-e. A 

clear boundary is observed at the edge of the patterned region where the dissipated energy exhibits 

a minimum. Comparing the dissipation linecut (Fig. 5h) with the carrier density change (Fig. 5a) 

shows that the dissipation minimum region is confined to ~200 nm . This narrow channel , where 

energy dissipation dips to a minimum, occurs near the relative intermediate doping range (Fig. 5g), 

which is expected for superconductivity at the LAO/STO interface and is located near the edge of 

the patterned region. The green curve in Fig. 5 f corresponds to the dissipation vs . bias in this 

channel. 

Together, these results highlight how spatially resolved CPD and dissipation mapping 

provide complementary information: CPD measurements track electrostatics, while dissipation 

provides a direct local diagnostic of the superconducting response. 

Discussion 

We estimate the change in carrier density in the patterned channels by utilizing the CPD 

changes obtained from the KPFM. Comparing the density profile with estimates for optimal 

density suggests the patterned channel is slightly overdoped, and the optimal density is obtained 

on the sides of the patterned channel. This finding is consistent with a scenario in which 2D 

channels are overdoped in the center, and necessarily trace out the superconducting dome as the 

insulating boundary is reached 7. The edge of an overdoped 2D channel is necessarily bounded by 

an optimally doped region where pairing and superconductivity are strongest . We find that t he 

width of the superconducting channel is dictated by the electrostatic screening properties of the 13 

LAO dielectric and is independent of the patterned channel width. However, this carrier density 

estimate is an upper bound , as we neglected changes in the surface dipole, and the dissipation 

measurements provided a more distinct signature of the superconductivity in the patterned 

channel s.

Focusing on the dissipation results, the observed  ∆𝑉 4 component term at zero magnetic 

field provides evidence of superconductivity due to suppression of ohmic losses in the patterned 

channels . The optimally doped region (green curve in Fig. 5f) exhibits persistent superconducting 

behavior, as shown in Fig. 4b green curve. In contrast, the over -doped and underdoped regions 

display concave behavior, similar to Fig. 4d above the critical field (blue and purple curves). This 

concave behavior indicates a change in bias dependence in the overdoped and underdoped regions 

without global superconduct ivity, coexisting with spatially localized gapped superconducting 

regions. The concave curves in Figs. 4 and 5 indicate an enhanced dissipation at the bias voltage 

corresponding to the CPD. We interpret this as increased ohmic losses due to pair -breaking, 

driving the system toward an insulating or weakly conductive state. One possible interpretation of 

the concave shape of the curve away from the CPD bias is that bias values away from the CPD 

shift the interface doping, lowering the critical field. Since dissipation is a maximum just before 

the critical field values, this naturally yields a concave curve when the line cut is held constant at 

a magnetic field from the map in Fig. 4c. 

Notably, the dissipation measurements in Fig. 4 are correlated with the critical magnetic 

field, consistent with macroscopic transport measurements of superconductivity in these devices .

The region where the dissipation reaches a minimum (Fig. 5 h) suggests a superconducting channel 

where ohmic losses are further suppressed . This measurement is performed at the critical magnetic 

field. For optimal doping , this channel likely has a higher critical field than observed in the 14 

transport measurements (Fig. 1 e). We propose that the intrinsic superconductivity resides in the 

optimally -doped edge channels (Fig. 5h) , while the superconducting signatures observed in the 

overdoped interior arise from a proximity effect —Cooper pairs diffusing from the edges over the 

superconducting coherence length ξ. This interpretation is quantitatively supported by established 

material parameters: the superconducting coherence length in LAO/STO has been measured to be 

ξ ≈ 60 –100 nm 36 –38 . For our ~1 μm wide channel, proximity effects extending ~ξ from each edge 

would influence a substantial portion of the channel interior, naturally explaining why 

superconducting signatures appear throughout the patterned region at zero field. This proximit y

effect scenario provides a compelling explanation for the spatial hierarchy observed in our field -

dependent measurements: as magnetic field increases, the proximity -induced superconductivity in 

the interior is suppressed first (the “weakest link”), whi le the intrinsic edge superconductivity 

persists to higher fields. The interior lacks its own robust superconducting gap —it inherits 

superconducting correlations from the edges. When the proximity coupling is weakened by the 

applied field, the interior reverts to a non -superconducting state before the edges do. 

Outlook 

Our measurements are consistent with superconductivity preferentially localized near 

(~200 nm ) channels at the edges of patterned regions . The dissipation spectra show characteristic 

∆𝑉 4 nonlinear component in superconducting regions, contrasting with  ∆𝑉 2 ohmic losses in 

normal regions. Near the critical field, the dissipation signal behavior changes strongly, consistent 

with the suppression of superconducting correlations and a crossover in the dominant dissipation 

channel . Both inside and outside the patterned channels, dissipation vs. bias curves show concave 

dissipation -bias dependences near and above the critical field , while the outside region shows a

stronger bias dependence. Convex dependence is only preserved in the strip near the channel 15 

border, suggesting a more robust superconducting phase. These spatially resolved measurements 

are suggestive of the one -dimensional hypothesis , explain ing why critical currents do not scale 

with channel width and why pairing persists beyond the bulk superconducting regime. However, 

more work is needed to definitively nail down this conclusion, with local measurements as a 

function of temperature, field, gating bias, and frequency. Importantly, t his work demonstrate s that 

this path is achievable via atomic f orce microscopy measurements at ultra -low temperatures, where 

the LAO /STO interface superconductivity resides .

References 

1. Schooley, J. F., Hosler, W. R. & Cohen, M. L. Superconductivity in Semiconducting SrTiO 3. Phys. Rev. Lett. 12 ,

474 –475 (1964). 

2. Ohtomo, A. & Hwang, H. Y. A high -mobility electron gas at the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 heterointerface. Nature 427 ,

423 –426 (2004). 

3. Cen, C., Thiel, S., Mannhart, J. & Levy, J. Oxide Nanoelectronics on Demand. Science 323 , 1026 –1030 (2009). 

4. Yu, M. et al. Nanoscale control of LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 conductance beyond the polar catastrophe. J. Appl. Phys. 138 ,

095303 (2025). 

5. Yang, D. et al. Nanoscale control of LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 metal –insulator transition using ultra -low -voltage electron -

beam lithography. Applied Physics Letters 117 , 253103 (2020). 

6. Yang, D. et al. Scalable Programming of LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Interfaces via Ultra -Low -Voltage Electron -Beam 

Lithography. Advanced Materials Interfaces e00442 (2025) doi:10.1002/admi.202500442. 

7. Pai, Y. -Y. et al. One -Dimensional Nature of Superconductivity at the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Interface. Phys. Rev. Lett. 

120 , 147001 (2018). 

8. Cheng, G. et al. Electron pairing without superconductivity. Nature 521 , 196 –199 (2015). 

9. Briggeman, M. et al. Pascal conductance series in ballistic one -dimensional LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 channels. Science 

367 , 769 –772 (2020). 

10. Kalisky, B. et al. Critical thickness for ferromagnetism in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 heterostructures. Nat Commun 3, 922 

(2012). 16 

11. Honig, M. et al. Local electrostatic imaging of striped domain order in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3. Nature Mater 12 , 1112 –

1118 (2013). 

12. Rose, M. -A. et al. Local inhomogeneities resolved by scanning probe techniques and their impact on local 2DEG 

formation in oxide heterostructures. Nanoscale Adv. 3, 4145 –4155 (2021). 

13. Jiang, Z. et al. Direct imaging of sketched conductive nanostructures at the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interface. Applied 

Physics Letters 111 , 233104 (2017). 

14. Kisiel, M. et al. Dissipation at Large Separations. in Fundamentals of Friction and Wear on the Nanoscale (eds 

Gnecco, E. & Meyer, E.) 315 –343 (Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2024). doi:10.1007/978 -3-031 -

63065 -1_15. 

15. Ollier, A. et al. Energy dissipation on magic angle twisted bilayer graphene. Commun Phys 6, 344 (2023). 

16. Kim, S. et al. Edge channels of broken -symmetry quantum Hall states in graphene visualized by atomic force 

microscopy. Nat Commun 12 , 2852 (2021). 

17. Kisiel, M. et al. Mechanical dissipation from charge and spin transitions in oxygen -deficient SrTiO3 surfaces. 

Nat Commun 9, 2946 (2018). 

18. Kisiel, M. et al. Noncontact Atomic Force Microscope Dissipation Reveals a Central Peak of SrTiO 3 Structural 

Phase Transition. Phys. Rev. Lett. 115 , 046101 (2015). 

19. Annadi, A. et al. Quantized Ballistic Transport of Electrons and Electron Pairs in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Nanowires. 

Nano Lett. 18 , 4473 –4481 (2018). 

20. Tomczyk, M. et al. Micrometer -Scale Ballistic Transport of Electron Pairs in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Nanowires. Phys. 

Rev. Lett. 117 , 096801 (2016). 

21. Fix, T. et al. Influence of SrTiO3 substrate miscut angle on the transport properties of LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interfaces. 

Appl. Phys. Lett. 99 , 022103 (2011). 

22. Podkaminer, J. P., Patzner, J. J., Davidson, B. A. & Eom, C. B. Real -time and in situ monitoring of sputter 

deposition with RHEED for atomic layer controlled growth. APL Mater. 4, 086111 (2016). 

23. Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy: Measuring and Compensating Electrostatic Forces . (Springer, Heidelberg ; 

New York, 2012). 

24. Melitz, W., Shen, J., Kummel, A. C. & Lee, S. Kelvin probe force microscopy and its application. Surface Science 

Reports 66 , 1 –27 (2011). 17 

25. Kim, H. et al. Influence of Gas Ambient on Charge Writing at the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Heterointerface. ACS Appl. 

Mater. Interfaces 6, 14037 –14042 (2014). 

26. Kim, H., Chan, N. Y., Dai, J. & Kim, D. -W. Enhanced Surface -and -Interface Coupling in Pd -Nanoparticle -coated 

LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Heterostructures: Strong Gas - and Photo -Induced Conductance Modulation. Sci Rep 5, 8531 

(2015). 

27. Singh -Bhalla, G. et al. Built -in and induced polarization across LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 heterojunctions. Nature Phys 7,

80 –86 (2011). 

28. Zhou, Y. et al. Tuning carrier density at complex oxide interface with metallic overlayer. Appl. Phys. Lett. 108 ,

231603 (2016). 

29. Caviglia, A. D. et al. Electric field control of the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interface ground state. Nature 456 , 624 –627 

(2008). 

30. Bell, C. et al. Dominant Mobility Modulation by the Electric Field Effect at the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Interface. Phys. 

Rev. Lett. 103 , 226802 (2009). 

31. Kisiel, M. et al. Suppression of electronic friction on Nb films in the superconducting state. Nature Mater 10 ,

119 –122 (2011). 

32. Volokitin, A. I., Persson, B. N. J. & Ueba, H. Enhancement of noncontact friction between closely spaced bodies 

by two -dimensional systems. Phys. Rev. B 73 , 165423 (2006). 

33. Zerweck, U., Loppacher, C., Otto, T., Grafström, S. & Eng, L. M. Accuracy and resolution limits of Kelvin probe 

force microscopy. Phys. Rev. B 71 , 125424 (2005). 

34. Li, L. et al. Very Large Capacitance Enhancement in a Two -Dimensional Electron System. Science 332 , 825 –

828 (2011). 

35. Nethwewala, A. et al. Electron pairing and nematicity in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 nanostructures. Nat Commun 14 , 7657 

(2023). 

36. Thierschmann, H. et al. Transport regimes of a split gate superconducting quantum point contact in the two -

dimensional LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 superfluid. Nat Commun 9, 2276 (2018). 

37. Monteiro, A. M. R. V. L. et al. Two -dimensional superconductivity at the (111) LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interface. Phys. 

Rev. B 96 , 020504 (2017). 18 

38. Erlandsen, R. et al. A Two -Dimensional Superconducting Electron Gas in Freestanding LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3

Micromembranes. Nano Lett. 22 , 4758 –4764 (2022). 

39. Song, Y. J. et al. Invited Review Article: A 10 mK scanning probe microscopy facility. Review of Scientific 

Instruments 81 , 121101 -121101 –33 (2010). 

40. Schwenk, J. et al. Achieving μeV tunneling resolution in an in -operando scanning tunneling microscopy, atomic 

force microscopy, and magnetotransport system for quantum materials research. Review of Scientific Instruments 

91 , 071101 (2020). 

41. Cen, C. et al. Nanoscale control of an interfacial metal –insulator transition at room temperature. Nature Mater 7,

298 –302 (2008). 

42. Giessibl, F. J. Advances in atomic force microscopy. Rev. Mod. Phys. 75 , 949 –983 (2003). 

43. Albrecht, T. R., Grütter, P., Horne, D. & Rugar, D. Frequency modulation detection using high‐Q cantilevers for 

enhanced force microscope sensitivity. Journal of Applied Physics 69 , 668 –673 (1991). 

44. Cheng, G. et al. Tunable Electron -Electron Interactions in LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 Nanostructures. Phys. Rev. X 6,

041042 (2016). 

Acknowledgments: 

Certain commercial equipment, instruments, or materials are identified in this article to 

specify the experimental procedure adequately. Such identification is not intended to imply 

recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards and T echnology, 

nor is it intended to imply that the materials or equipment identified are necessarily the best 

available for the purpose. D.Y. thanks Prof. E. Tosatti for the insightful discussion related 

to the dissipation data. 

Funding: 

University of Maryland and NIST Joint Quantum Institute Grant No. 70NANB21H126 

(SK, DY ildiz )

Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 -20 -1-2352 (SK, DY ildiz, DYang )

Office of Naval Research Grant No. N00014 -21 -1-2537 (JL, CBE). 

Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) within Project -

ID 314695032 —SFB 1277 and GRK2905 (2905) (FJG) 

Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellowship (ONR N00014 -20 -1-2844) (CBE). 

Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation’s EPiQS Initiative, Grant GBMF9065 (CBE). 19 

US Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy Sciences 

(BES), under award number DE -FG02 -06ER46327 (CBE). 

Author contributions: 

JL and JAS conceived the idea and designed the scope of the experiment. JL and JAS 

supervised the project. DYildiz, SK, MY, DYang carried out the measurements and 

analyzed the data. KL, RS, CBE, FJG, DYang, MY, EMS , PI contributed to fabricating the 

devices for the project. DYildiz, DYang, JAS wrote the original draft of the manuscript, 

and all authors discussed and provided final editing of the manuscript. 

Competing interests: FJG holds patents on the qPlus sensor. All other a uthors declare that they 

have no competing interests. 

Data availability: All data are available in the main text or the supplementary materials. Further 

information is available from the corresponding authors on request. 

Additional Information 

Supplementary Information file 

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to JAS or JL. 20 

Fig. 1. Patterning the LAO/STO interface with superconducting channels . (a) Schematic 

diagram of ULV -EBL patterning. (b) Conductance measurement evolution during patterning. A

sharp conductance increase is observed when the pattern connects two contacts. (c) Optical 

microscope image of the device. The top LAO layer has been etched away outside the dark blue 

region. The lithographically -defined area patterned by ULV -EBL is indicated in green. (d) The 

region enclosed by the dashed red box in (c) is magnified to show the various patterns. The 

dimensions of the patterned areas are: 1D channel (l × w): 3.5 μm × 10 -20 nm (single line), 2D 

channel (l × w): 3.5 μm × 1 μm, and the waveguide: 1.35 μm channel with 100 nm gap separation 

on each side. (e) Magnetic field dependence of channel resistance measured through contacts 4

and 5 marked in (d), as illustrated in (Supplementary Fig. 5) . The asymmetric dependence on 

current likely reflects asymmetric contact transparency or a built -in electrostatic asymmetry, 

neither of which affects the supercond ucting properties probed here. (f) Line cut of the channel 

resistance at 47 mT indicated by the dashed line in (e). 21 

Fig. 2. Visualizing the patterned channel . Schematic diagrams illustrating the concept of contact 

potential difference (CPD). (a) When the tip and the sample are electrically in contact, a potential 

difference across the vacuum gap arises due to the difference in their work functions. (b) A bias 

voltage  𝑉 Bias  is applied to the sample to nullify this difference, making the tip and the sample 

electrostatically neutral and  𝑉 Bias  is equivalent to the contact potential difference. (c) AFM 

topography along the patterned region of the four uc LAO/STO interface, acquired in frequency 

modulation (FM) mode with an oscillation amplitude of 3.2 nm –5.0 nm. (d) AFM topography and 

(e) contact potential difference map within the red -dashed boundary indicated in (c), respectively. 

Diagonal stripes in (d) are atomic terraces of the LAO . CPD is extracted from ∆𝑓 vs. 𝑉 Bias 

parabolic curves at each grid point (see Supplemental Information) . The patterned region 

boundaries are indicated in green dashed lines in (c-e). A 4.0 nm oscillation amplitude with 

frequency shift ∆𝑓 = −3.0 Hz  was used for feedback of the measurement in (d,e). T = 10 mK. 22 

Fig. 3. Estimation of spatial carrier density profile in a superconducting channel . (a) Carrier 

density map of the patterned LAO/STO region calculated from the CPD map in Fig. 2e using 

equation (1). A CPD of 1.024 V was used for the non -patterned area obtained at the bottom left 

corner of the image in Fig. 2e. (b) Charge density profile across the pattern boundary extracted 

along the orange dotted line in (a). The statistical uncertainty is less than the sym bol size. The 

estimated pattern bounda ries are indicated by green dashed lines. 23 

Fig. 4. AFM energy dissipation measurement at LAO/STO interface . (a) AFM Topography 

image at the end of the 2D channel region of the 4 uc LAO/STO device (see orange box in Fig. 

2c). The green dashed lines indicate the estimated patterned boundary. (b) Damping coefficient 

vs. sample bias curves obtained at the two points marked in (a). The two curves are fit to the form 

𝛼 ∆𝑉 2 + 𝛽 ∆𝑉 4 . The ratios of the 4th to 2nd order coefficients , 𝛽 /𝛼 = (3.85 ±

0.03 ) 𝑉 −2 and (1.84 ± 0.01 ) 𝑉 −2 for curves A and B, respectively. The uncertainty estimates 

represent one standard deviation derived from the non -linear least square s fits. The measurements 

in the patterned area have the large r 4th -order components. (c) AFM dissipation vs. magnetic field 

and sample bias obtained near point A in (a) . (d) Horizontal line cuts from (c) at magnetic fields 

of -18 mT, 42 mT, 102 mT, 162 mT, and 222 mT (indicated by colored arrowheads). (e) Vertical 

line cut at the sample bias of -500 mV showing the dissipation field dependence at the CPD. A

glitch occurred in the measurement at a small negative field due to the AFM feedback. Otherwise, 

this measurement is symmetric in the magnetic field. A 3.2 nm oscillation with frequency shift 

∆𝑓 = −1.0 Hz  was used for feedback. The statistical uncertainty for (b), (d), and (e) is less than 

the symbol size. T = 10 mK. 24 

Fig. 5. Spatial mapping of energy dissipation across a patterned channel boundary . (a) CPD 

map extracted from ∆𝑓 vs. 𝑉 Bias  parabolic curves at each grid point in the rectangular region 

outlined by the dashed yellow line in Fig. 4a. The green dashed lines indicate the estimated 

patterned boundary. (b) The damping coefficient in the Y vs . VBias plane obtained at 𝑋 = 125 nm ,

obtained from the AFM excitation vs. sample bias data . The dark blue dashed line shows the 

evolution of the CPD as the spatial map crosses the patterned boundary. (c-e) Spatial maps in the 

XY plane of the damping coefficient at selected sample biases of -900 mV, -300 mV, and 300 mV, 

respectively. Note the narrow strip where the damping coefficient dips to minimum values between 

Y values of 400 nm to 600 nm. (f) Line traces of the damping coefficient vs . sample bias at the 

selected Y values indicated by the colored arrows in (b). The statistical uncertainty is less than the 

symbol size. (g) Schematic of the superconducting phase diagram of the superconducting critical 

temperature 𝑇 𝑐 vs density 𝑛 for the LAO/STO system. (h) A comparison between the damping 

coefficient obtained by the dashed line in (d) and the carrier density estimated from the CPD map 

in (a) at X = 125 nm using equation (1). A CPD of 0.07 V was used for the non -patterned area 

obtained from the bottom right corner of the CPD map in (a). A 3.2 nm oscillation with frequency 

shift ∆𝑓 = −0.800 Hz  was used for feedback . The statistical uncertainty for (f) and (g) is less than 

the symbol size. B = -235 mT. T = 10 mK. 25 

# Supplementary Information for 

## Local probing of superconductivity at oxide interfaces with atomic force 

## microscopy 

Dilek Yildiz 1,2,3,*,† , Sungmin Kim 1,2,* , Dengyu Yang 1,2,4,* Muqing Yu 4,* , Kyoungjun Lee 5,

Ruiqi Sun 5, En -Min Shih 1,6 , Steven R. Blankenship 1, Patrick Irvin 4, Franz J. Giessibl 7, Chang -

Beom Eom 5, Jeremy Levy 4, and Joseph A. Stroscio 1,† 

> 1

Physical Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology; 

Gaithersburg, MD 20899, USA. 

> 2

Joint Quantum Institute, Department of Physics, University of Maryland; College Park, 

MD 20742, USA 

> 3

Department of Advanced Material Science, The University of Tokyo; Chiba 277 -8561, 

Japan. 

> 4

Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh; Pittsburgh, 

Pennsylvania 15260, USA 

> 5

Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Wisconsin –Madison; 

Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA 

> 6

Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Maryland; College Park, MD 

20742, USA. 

> 7

Institute of Experimental and Applied Physics, University of Regensburg; Regensburg 

93040, Germany 

> *

These authors contributed equally to this work. 

> †

Corresponding authors: yildiz@g.ecc.u -tokyo.ac.jp, joseph.stroscio@nist.gov 

The PDF file includes: 

Materials and Methods 

Supplementary Text 

Supplementary Figs. 1 to 5

References (39 -44)26 

Methods 

Device fabrication methods 

A commercially available SrTiO₃ ( STO ) substrate is treated with buffered hydrofluoric 

acid (BHF) etching to produce an atomically flat TiO 2-terminated surface. A thin LaAlO 3 (LAO )

film is then grown on top by pulsed laser deposition (PLD), with the film thickness precisely 

monitored by in situ reflection high -energy electron diffraction (RHEED) oscillations 2,22 . Two 

devices were investigated: Device A with 4 unit cells (uc) of LAO (ULV -EBL patterned) and 

Device B with 6 uc of LAO (c -AFM patterned) .

The devices were patterned at the University of Pittsburgh and then subsequently placed in 

a vacuum carrier. The vacuum carrier and devices were transported to NIST within several hours. 

After arriving at NIST , the devices were briefly exposed to the atmosphere to load them into the 

vacuum load lock of the mK STM system. At all times , the devices were kept from ambient 

lighting, and only red -filtered lighting was used to view the devices as they were transported 

through the series of vacuum systems that com prise the mK STM system 39 . The devices for 

measurements were then placed in a custom scanning probe module capable of simultaneous AFM, 

STM, and magnetotransport measurements 40 . The system utilizes a dilution refrigerator which 

operates at a base temperature of 10 mK with magnetic fields up to 15 T perpendicular to the 

sample plane. Multimodal measurements are accomplished by using custom -designed sample and 

probe tip holders , which feature eight electrical contacts for devices and probe sensors, allowing 

for multimodal measurements of STM, AFM, and magnetotransport measurements in a single 

system operating at temperatures down to 10 mK 40 . The qPlus AFM sensor uses a design that 

incorporates an integrated excitation electrode on the sensor. For the qPlus sensor, two contacts 

were wired to read out the AFM sensor , one for the STM tunneling current, and one for the sensor 

excitation. The probe tips were fabricated from 100 μm diameter Ir wire. 

C-AFM patterning 

C-AFM lithography 41 was performed using a commercial AFM system. The patterning 

process was conducted at room temperature in a controlled environment with relative humidity 

maintained between 40 –50%. An Aspire conical force modulation tip with doped single -crystal 

silicon was used for both imaging and lithograp hy. AFM imaging was carried out in AC (tapping) 

mode at a resonant frequency of approximately 75 kHz. Nanoscale patterning was performed in 

contact mode with a tip bias of +10 V. A custom electrical feedthrough setup wa s integrated to 

allow for in situ transport measurements during the patterning process. 

ULV -EBL patterning 

ULV -EBL 5,6 was performed using a commercial scanning electron microscope ( SEM )

system equipped with a double condenser column. The column incorporates two condenser lenses, 

enabling high -resolution imaging and patterning at low electron beam energies. Lithography was 

carried out using a high -frequency beam blanker in combination with a pattern generator hardware 

and control software customized to the SEM. A homemade electrical feedthrough was 

implemented to enable in situ transport measurements during electron beam e xposure. 27 

Scanning Probe Microscopy ( SPM ) Methods 

Frequency -modulation non -contact AFM 

Topography and electrostatic measurements were performed using frequency -modulation 

non -contact atomic force microscopy (FM -NC -AFM) and Kelvin probe force microscopy 

(KPFM). All measurements were conducted using an ultra -low -temperature SPM system 

operating under ultra -high vacuum (UHV) conditions and at cryogenic temperatures. Chemically 

etched Ir probe tips mounted on qPlus sensors were used for all scanning probe measurements. 

The sensor used for measurements had a resonance frequency of ≈18 kHz and a Q-factor of ≈100 k.

In FM -NC -AFM, topography is recorded by maintaining a constant frequency shift  (∆𝑓 )

while adjusting the tip -sample distance accordingly 42,43 . The apparent height in the resulting maps 

reflects not only the physical surface morphology but also variations in the local tip -sample force 

gradient, which includes contributions from electrostatic forces 23,42 . These electrostatic 

interactions arise from differences in the local dielectric environment and work function variations 

across the sample 23 .

To map local electrostatic potentials, FM -KPFM was employed to measure the CPD 

between the tip and the sample. Local CPD is defined as: 𝐶𝑃𝐷 = 𝜙 tip − 𝜙 sample  , where  𝜙 tip  and 

𝜙 sample  are the work functions of the tip and the sample, respectively. This allows for spatially 

resolved mapping of the surface potential, which is sensitive to local electronic structure and 

carrier distribution 23 .

The electrostatic force gradient influencing the frequency shift is given by 

𝐹 zelec ∝ 1 

> 2
> 𝑑𝐶
> 𝑑𝑧

(𝑉 CPD − 𝑉 Bias )2,

where C is the tip -sample capacitance,  𝑑𝐶  

> 𝑑𝑧

is the derivative of capacitance with respect to tip -sample 

distance, and  𝑉 CPD − 𝑉 Bias  is the voltage difference between the tip and the sample. Lateral 

variations in this force gradient modulate the tip’s vertical position to maintain a constant 

frequency shift,  ∆𝑓 , resulting in apparent height differences that are influenced by electrostatic 

contrast rather than actual surface topography. 

The sensitivity of FM -NC -AFM to electrostatic forces depends strongly on the local 

dielectric properties of the sample. In regions with thinner dielectric layers, such as thinner LAO, 

the larger dC/dz enhances electrostatic interactions and makes CPD contrast visible in topography 

scans. Conversely, in regions with thicker dielectrics, reduced dC/dz weakens this contribution, 

limiting electrostatic influence on topographic contrast. 

The CPD values are extracted from fitting the parabolic dependence of the frequency shift 

vs . bias curves, as illustrated in Supplementary Fig. 1 for the CPD map in Fig. 2 e of the main text. 28 

Supplementary Fig. 1. CPD determination from frequency shift vs.  𝑽 𝐁𝐢𝐚𝐬  curves . (a) CPD 

map from Fig. 2 e of the main text. The CPD values were obtained from fitting each  ∆𝑓 𝑣𝑠 . 𝑉 Bias 

in the three -dimensional AFM data set, as illustrated in ( b). ( b) Two  ∆𝑓 𝑣𝑠 . 𝑉 Bias  curves at points 

1 and 2 are fit to parabolic functions to determine their extrema values, which are the CPD. 

Dissipation 

Local non -contact dissipation spectroscopy was performed using a qPlus sensor to 

investigate dissipated energy associated with superconducting channels. All measurements were 

carried out in frequency -modulation (FM) NC -AFM mode. A metallic tip mounted on a the sensor 

was oscillated perpendicular to the sample surface, and the excitation signal required to maintain 

a constant oscillation amplitude was recorded as a measure of tip -sample energy dissipation. In 

the absence of tip -sample interactions, the senso r oscillates in free space, and the excitation voltage 

needed to sustain its motion is determined solely by the mechanical properties of the sensor. This 

baseline behavior is independent of the applied tip bias. The intrinsic damping coefficient of the 

sen sor in free space is given by, 

𝛤 0 = 𝑘 

2 𝜋 𝑓 0𝑄 

where k is the spring constant,  𝑓 0 = 𝜔 /2𝜋  is the resonance frequency and Q is the quality factor 

of the sensor. 

When the tip approaches the surface, additional energy dissipation arises due to tip -sample 

interactions such as viscoelastic damping or electronic friction. This leads to an increase in the 

excitation voltage  𝑉 𝑒𝑥𝑐 (𝑧 ) , required to maintain a constant oscillation amplitude. The 

corresponding damping coefficient under the interaction is calculated using 

𝛤 = 𝛤 0 (𝑉 exc (𝑧 )

𝑉 exc ,0

− 1)

where the  𝑉 exc ,0 is the excitation voltage in free space. 

Dissipation spectra were collected at various tip biases and magnetic fields to study the 

dependence of local energy loss mechanisms on electrostatic environment and external field 

conditions. 29 

c-AFM -patterned Device B 

The second Device B was fabricated using the c -AFM method, as shown in Supplementary 

Fig. 2. During the pattern evolution, a jump in conductance occurs when the channels are formed. 

Supplementary Fig. 2. c -AFM patterning of superconducting channels at the LAO/STO 

interface . ( a) Schematic diagram of ULV -EBL patterning and perovskite crystal structure of STO 

and LAO. MO6 (M=Al, Ti) octahedra are highlighted in gray. (b) Conductance measurement 

evolution during patterning. A sharp conductance increase is observed when the pattern connects 

two contacts. 

Selected regions of the LAO layer are etched using Ar+ ion milling, and Ti/Au electrodes 

are deposited to form electrical contacts to the 2DES at the LAO/STO interface. Additionally, a 

square region with the LAO layer was removed by inductively coupled pla sma reactive ion 

etching (ICP -RIE) to prepare a reference area without a 2DES (sky blue areas in Supplementary 

Fig. 2a)4.

Supplementary Fig . 3b shows the topography of a representative region that was measured 

on the c -AFM patterned 6uc LAO/STO sample (Device B) using frequency -modulated non -

contact AFM. This region includes four distinct areas: (1) LAO/STO with patterning, (2) 

LAO/STO without patterning, (3) bare STO with patterning , and (4) bare STO without patterning. 

These areas are clearly distinguishable in the AFM topography image shown in Supplementary 

Fig. 3b. To distinguish these areas more quantitatively, we obtained the measurement of the surface 

work function by measuring the CPD. The CP D is obtained in the KPFM mode , where the sample 

bias is adjusted to minimize the force between the sample and probe. The acquired KPFM CPD 

map across various sub -regions of Supplementary Fig. 3b, labeled Section 1 and Section 2, is 

shown in Supplementary Fig. 3c. A clear contrast is observed between the patterned and 

unpatterned regions in the presence of the LAO layer [ Supplementary Fig. 3c (Section 1)] with a 

CPD difference of ≈0.3 V. A decrease in CPD corresponds to an increase in work function, 

implyin g an increase in carrier density at the LAO interface. In contrast, no significant CPD 30 

variation is detected between patterned and unpatterned regions on bare STO [ Supplementary Fig. 

3c (Section 2)]. This suggests that the electronic response to patterning occurs only when the LAO 

layer is present. Without patterning, the LAO 

layer is below the critical thickness required to 

induce a 2DEG under unmodified conditions. As 

such, no 2DEG forms until surface protonation —

introduced by patterning —shifts the conduction 

band minimum of STO at the interface be low the 

Fermi level, enabling the formation of the 2DEG. 

In the absence of the LAO overlayer, no 2DEG is 

observed, regardless of whether patterning is 

applied [ Supplementary Fig. 3c (Section 2)]. The 

presence of surface charge following patterning 

along wi th the 2DEG is essential for generating 

measurable contrast in the CPD measurements, as 

it gives rise to an increase in work function, 

consistent with the schematic shown in Fig. 2 a

and b of the main text. 

Supplementary Fig. 3 AFM measurement of 

Device B patterned regions . (a) AFM image of 

the 6 uc LAO/STO device. False color is overlaid 

to aid distinction. The dark blue area represents 

the 6 uc LAO film, while the light blue area 

corresponds to the etched LAO region with 

exposed STO. ( b) AFM topography of an LAO -

etched region as indicated by the red rectangular 

spot in ( a). The c -AFM patterned area is marked 

by a green triangle. Topography was measured 

with a 4 nm oscillation amplitude and a -350 mHz 

∆𝑓  setpoint. ( c) CPD map of the regions shown in 

(b). CPD values were extracted from  ∆𝑓  vs.  𝑉 Bias 

parabolic curves at each point, measured with a 4 

nm oscillation amplitude and a −500 mHz  ∆𝑓 

setpoint (see Supplementary Fig. 1). A clear 

contrast is observed between the patterned and 

unpatterned regions in the presence of the LAO 

layer (Section 1) with a CPD difference of ≈0.3 V. 

When the LAO is removed, no CPD variation is 

observed (Section 2), indicating there is no 2DEG 

at th e STO surface .31 

Device B electrical characterization 

Device B was characterized with electrical measurements to determine critical current and field as 

well as transconductance, as shown in Supplementary Fig. 4. From Supplementary Fig. 4a and b,

the critical current was ≈ 30 nA and critical field ≈ 55 mT. A four -terminal transconductance map 

is recorded by varying the source -drain bias and the side gate voltage, revealing the finite -bias 

spectroscopy measurements ( Supplementary Fig. 4c) under zero to finite magnetic field. Diamond -

shaped features are observed across the full range of side gate voltages, consistent with ballistic 

transport in the nanowire waveguide that populates the subbands. Loop -like structures are also 

visible at zero field, indicative of Andreev bound states 44 . When a finite magnetic field is applied, 

the diamond structure splits, indicating the breaking of electron Cooper pairs compared to the zero -

field measurements. These results are consistent with similar nanostructures fabricated in previous 

measurements, indicative of the quality of the patterned 2DES 19,20 .

Supplementary Fig. 4. Electronic transport measurements of superconducting channels at 

the LAO/STO interface in Device B . ( a) Magnetic field dependence of the channel resistance in 

a c -AFM patterned six uc interface. ( b) Line cut of the channel resistance at 0 mT. ( c) Electronic 

transport through the waveguide channel of the c -AFM patterned six μc LAO/STO interface at 

selected magnetic fields. Conductance between contacts 8 and 7 is measured while a source current 

is applied between contacts 1 and 5 (see Supplementary Fig. 5 ).32 

Electrical Schematics 

The transport measurements were obtained by creating a pseudo -current source using a 

voltage source and a 1 MΩ resistor. The electrical schematics for Devices A and B are shown in 

Supplementary Fig. 5a and 5 b, respectively. 

Supplementary Fig. 5. Electronic schematics of measurements of the superconducting 

channels at the LAO/STO interface in Device A and B . ( a) Electrical schematic for the 

measurements shown in Fig. 1e and f of the main text. The AC voltage source was modulated at a 

frequency of 51 Hz and an RMS amplitude of 200 μV. (b) Electrical schematic for the 

measurements shown in Supplementary Fig. 4a and b. The AC voltage source was modulated at a 

frequency of 13 Hz and an RMS amplitude of 200 μV.