Title: Ballistic Exciton Flow Driven by Intertwined Exciton-Electron Orders in a Moir\'e Superlattice

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.26871v1

Published Time: Thu, 30 Apr 2026 01:13:40 GMT

Number of Pages: 30

Markdown Content:
# Ballistic Exciton Flow Driven by Intertwined Exciton-Electron Orders in a Moiré Superlattice 

# Shibin Deng 1, Jonas M. Peterson 1, Jonas Reimann 2, Heonjoon Park 3, Ammon Fischer 2, Takashi Taniguchi 4, Kenji Watanabe 4, Xiaodong Xu 3,5 , Dante M. Kennes 2,6 , and Libai Huang 1,* 1Department of Chemistry, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA 

> 2

# Max Planck Institute for the Structure and Dynamics of Matter, Center for Free Electron Laser Science, 22761 Hamburg, Germany 

> 3

# Department of Physics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA 

> 4

# Research Center for Electronic and Optical Materials, National Institute for Materials Science, 1-1 Namiki, Tsukuba 305-0044, Japan 

> 5

# Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA 

> 6

# Institut für Theorie der Statistischen Physik, RWTH Aachen University, 52056 Aachen, Germany 

> *

# Correspondence:libai-huang@purdue.edu 

> 1
> arXiv:2604.26871v1 [cond-mat.str-el] 29 Apr 2026

# Abstract 

Moiré superlattices of transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) host strongly interacting Bose– Fermi mixtures in which bosonic excitons coexist with correlated electron lattices. Using ultrafast, time- and energy-resolved photoluminescence (PL) and reflectance microscopy, we show that strong exciton–electron and exciton–exciton repulsion can enable collective ballistic exciton transport in a WSe 2/WS 2 heterobilayer. The ballistic transport is energy-selective: repulsive interactions drive excitons into a higher moiré exciton band, where enhanced intersite hopping enables rapid spatial expansion. Correspondingly, the exciton mean-squared displacement (MSD) exhibits a quadratic time dependence ( ∝ t2). This ballistic expansion is enhanced at fractional electron fillings where the electrons form generalized Wigner-crystal (GWC) orders. Afterwards, the system transitions into a mixed electron–exciton Mott state as Auger recombination and density depletion conclude the ballistic expansion. A one-dimensional Bose–Fermi Hubbard model solved using density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) qualitatively reproduces the measured exciton transport and time-dependent response. It further confirms that strong cross-species interactions allow the electron crystal to perforate the exciton Mott background, accelerating its melting and enhancing exciton motion. Our results establish moiré TMDs as highly tunable platforms for realizing strongly inter-acting Bose–Fermi mixtures, which we employ here to demonstrate real-time control of intertwined bosonic and electronic order and to establish a route to the exciton insulator–fluid transition. 2Introduction 

Moiré superlattices of transition-metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) have emerged as a solid-state plat-form to explore strongly correlated Bose-Fermi mixtures, in which long-lived interlayer excitons (bosons) coexist and interact with correlated electron lattices (fermions). 1–7 Flat moiré bands local-ize electrons or holes into lattice sites with strong on-site repulsion, enabling Mott and generalized Wigner-crystal (GWC) states, while the same periodic potential traps long-lived, dipolar excitons with strong exciton-exciton and exciton-charge interactions. 3,8–16 Recent experiments have estab-lished that excitons are exquisitely sensitive to correlated electronic orders: exciton spectra encode fermionic incompressibility and magnetism; exciton density waves and valley-polarized excitonic in-sulators can be stabilized by Coulomb-coupled bilayers; and optically injected excitons in a single moiré bilayer exhibit signatures of a bosonic Mott phase with suppressed transport and large in-teraction gaps. 9,17–21 These advances highlight moiré TMDs as controllable Bose–Fermi Hubbard platforms in which excitonic and electronic orders can be achieved by combined electrostatic and optical control. Despite rapid progress, the dynamics of coupled bosonic and fermionic orders remains largely unex-plored. Dissipative pathways are expected to play an important role for non-equilibrium phase tran-sitions, 22–25 yet most studies emphasize equilibrium phase diagrams and steady-state spectroscopies. Although excitons have been widely deployed as sensors of electronic phases, using screening-induced shifts, linewidth changes, and intensity modulations, they are typically treated as spectators, 19,21 

and time-resolved probes of exciton–electron interplay are scarce. Importantly, excitonic coherent dynamics, has not yet been observed in TMD moiré superlattices, 26–28 underscoring the need for dy-namical approaches. In the absence of electrons, unprecedented control of dipolar excitons revealing slow, “frozen” non-equilibrium dynamics of exciton Mott insulators in moiré lattices was demon-strated. 29 However, the hierarchy of timescales governing exciton–exciton versus exciton–charge coupling is unknown, obscuring the microscopic routes by which non-equilibrium phases emerge for mixtures of excitons and electrons. At the mechanism level, the interplay is expected to arise from a competition among on-site exciton–electron repulsion, inter-site interactions, screening, and possible polaronic dressing. Here, we address these open questions by time-resolved spectroscopy and imaging of exciton dynam-ics in a dual-gated WSe 2/WS 2 moiré heterobilayer. We independently controlled the fermionic filling across GWC orders while optically preparing a bosonic exciton Mott insulator. We directly track the coupled dynamics of the two intertwined orders and uncover an accelerated melting of the exciton Mott state in the vicinity of electron-crystalline order at fractional fillings. Strong exciton–electron repulsion drives excitons into a higher-energy moiré band at electronic-crystal sites, where spectral-and time-resolved imaging reveals ballistic transport. A one-dimensional version of the Bose–Fermi Hubbard model on the moiré lattice, solved using density matrix renormalization group (DMRG), reveals the key mechanisms: the electronic GWCs will excite the excitons to a higher energy state and perforate the excitonic Mott state. This is due to the strong local electron-exciton interaction 3that raises the exciton beyond the lowest moiré band confinement energy. Our results point to the potential for dynamical engineering in moiré Bose–Fermi mixtures. 

# Results 

Strong correlation between excitons and electrons . In this work, we investigate the competing excitonic and electronic orders with strong interspecies interactions in the same lattice (schematically illustrated in Fig. 1a). To explore this, we study nearly 60 ° twisted (H-stacked) WS 2/WSe 2 heter-obilayers; the detailed device configuration is shown in Extended Data Fig. 1. This combination of materials and the twist angle have previously been shown to host strong correlations of both excitons and charge carriers, including Mott insulators of both charges and excitons at integer fillings as well as generalized Wigner crystals at fractional fillings. 9,30,31 In addition, a mixed exciton–charge Mott insulator can form when the combined filling of excitons and charge carriers equals one per moiré unit cell 32 . The moiré superlattice has a lattice constant of LM ≈8 nm and the lowest lying exciton is an interlayer exciton (IX) at around 1.415 eV (Fig. 1b). Electrostatic gating controls the electron density, while the exciton density is determined by the photoexcitation intensity (using a 740 nm pump to resonantly excite WSe 2 and calculations of exciton density in Methods). In this way, the fermion (electron) and boson (exciton) populations are independently tunable, enabling controlled studies of the real-time dynamics and correlations in Bose–Fermi mixtures. In what follows, we focus on electron-exciton interaction (doping electrons). Unless otherwise noted, all optical measurements were performed at 6 K. Steady-state PL, plotted versus electron filling νe, exhibits pronounced intensity enhancements at critical fractional fillings νc (e.g., 1/5, 1/3, 1/2, and 2/3), consistent with prior reports (Fig. 1b). 2,9,12 

The data in Fig. 1b were acquired under pulsed excitation for 0 ≤ νe ≤ 1; complementary CW-excitation spectra over a wider νe range are shown in Extended Data Fig. 1. The enhancement is commonly ascribed to reduced electron screening and exciton–electron scattering when the elec-tronic system enters correlated insulating states. The pronounced sensitivity of the PL intensity has, in turn, been used as a diagnostic of GWC order of the electrons. Previous works also showed the binding of moiré excitons to the charges in neighboring moiré cells, redshifting the IX exciton emission, 2 most pronouncedly seen at νe = 1 /7. To highlight how the PL from excitons evolves with 

νe, we plot the first derivative of the PL intensity with respect to filling, dIPL  

> dνe

, in Fig. 1c. Notably, the PL spectrum develops a clear blue-shifted shoulder alongside the main IX exciton peak at critical fractional filling, most pronounced at νe = 2 /3 (see the zoomed-in view in Fig. 1d). These data in Fig. 1b-d were acquired at exciton densities sufficient to establish an exciton Mott insulator 29 

(initial exciton density N0 ≈ 5, N0 is the average number of excitons per site). PL spectra taken at a low exciton density, below the Mott limit, are shown in Extended Data Fig. 2, where similar features were also observed. 4Figure 1: Intertwined exciton–electron order in a WSe 2/WS 2 moiré heterobilayer. a,Schematic of coexistence of an electron generalized Wigner crystal (GWC) at electron filling νe = 2 /3

and an exciton Mott insulator at unity exciton filling ( νx = 1 ). b, Electron filling dependent photoluminescence (PL) anomalies appear at GWC fractional fillings, including the emergence of a blue shoulder. c, First derivative of PL intensity as a function of νe, highlighting the GWC order at νe = 1 /5, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3 d, Magnified view of c emphasizing the blue-shifted shoulder near 

νe = 2 /3, resulting from excitons occupying a higher energy band when co-localized with electrons. e

Schematics of the interaction between the electrons and excitons are enhanced by GWCs. The hierarchy of the interaction energy scale, exciton-exciton repulsion ( Uxx ) is larger than repulsion exciton and an electron ( Uxe ) and they both are larger than the intersite hopping ( J1) of the lowest exciton band. f, Time-resolved exciton PL decays with exponential fits (thin black curves). The decay channels exhibit a clear hierarchy: exciton–exciton annihilation (blue, τxx ∼ 3 ns ) is fastest, followed by exciton–electron Auger recombination (green, τxe ∼ 5 ns ); both are more than an order of magnitude faster than single-exciton recombination (red, τx ∼ 150 ns ). The blue-shifted emission at 1.425 eV is consistent with strong on-site exciton–electron repulsion 

Uxe : when electrons crystallize, the likelihood of exciton co-localization on electron-occupied moiré sites increases, driving excitons into a higher moiré band at GWC sites (illustrated in Fig. 1e). We note that this shift is smaller than the blue shift at νe = 1 , where electrons form a Mott insula-tor 1,2 ; the difference is explained by weaker screening in the GWC compared with the Mott state. Time-resolved PL measurements show that the blue-shifted shoulder at νe = 2 /3 (yellow curve in Fig. 1f) decays substantially faster than the lower energy IX peak at 1.415 eV associated with singly occupied moiré sites (red curve in Fig. 1f). Co-localization enhances three-particle Auger recombi-nation, where the recombination of the exciton is non-radiatively transfer to the electron, leading to a faster decay 33,34 . This shoulder lies at lower energy than the emission from two excitons oc-cupying the same moiré site (Extended Data Fig. 3). The energy hierarchy, summarized in Fig. 1e, is Uxx > U xe ≫ J1, where Uxx is the exciton–exciton repulsion, Uxe the exciton–electron repulsion, 5and J1 the nearest-neighbour hopping of the lowest exciton band. In addition, the exciton–exciton annihilation (EEA) timescale ( τxx , 3 ns) (blue curvEFig. 1f) as discussed in our previous work 29 is substantially shorter than the Auger recombination decay ( τxe ) (green curvEFig. 1f), allowing for a clear separation of the two processes in time. 

Emergence of Ballistic Exciton Transport from Exciton–Exciton and Exciton–Electron Repulsion . We investigate the dynamics and transport of the exciton Mott state while sweeping the electron filling νe across GWCs. As established previously at charge neutrality, the exciton cloud undergoes a brief expansion over the first ∼ 10 ns, after which the motion freezes for up to 80 ns due to the formation of an exciton Mott insulator and strong long-range dipolar interactions. 29 Here, we perform spectrally resolved, time-dependent imaging to follow both the decay dynamics and the spatial profile of the exciton cloud in different moiré bands. A diffraction-limited femtosecond pulse initializes a Gaussian exciton distribution, and the spatially and spectrally resolved PL is recorded by raster-scanning a single-photon counting detector in the image plane (Methods; Extended Data Fig. 4). Similar method has been extensively applied to image exciton diffusion. 35–37 We first specifically probed the blue-shifted emission at 1.425 eV corresponding to the higher energy exciton state due to exciton-electron co-localization. To disentangle Mott-regime dynamics from single-exciton behavior, we compare a high-density, Mott-forming regime (initial exciton density N0 ≈ 5) with a low-density regime ( N0 ≈ 0.3), where excitons remain weakly correlated. Representative images are shown in Fig. 2a,b for νe = 0 .60 and νe = 2 /3 in the Mott regime (more images are in Extended Data Fig. 5-6). To quantify transport, we compute the mean-squared displacement (MSD) from the time-dependent exciton probabilities Pi(t) on moiré sites i,

MSD( t) = X

> i

Pi(t) ri − r0

> 2

, (1) where r0 is the initial excitation position. When the electron filling is tuned through GWCs at high exciton density (Mott regime), the ex-citon lifetime change abruptly near the fractional fillings (Fig. 2c), with particularly strong effects at νe = 1 /5, 1/3,2/5,1/2, and 2/3. The largest deviations occur within the first ∼ 30 ns, when electron–exciton Auger recombination is most effective. This behavior indicates that Auger pro-cesses are enhanced by the emergence of GWC orders. The corresponding MSD also exhibits sharp changes at νe = 1 /5,1/3,2/5,1/2, and 2/3. (Fig. 2d). The electron configuration for these GWC orders is illustrated in Fig. 2e. Lifetimes shorten while the exciton cloud expands more rapidly, indi-cating strong cross-species correlations. The onset and kinetics of this melting track the emergence of electronic crystalline order, with the most pronounced response at νe = 2 /3, consistent with the PL-intensity anomalies in Fig. 1c,d. In stark contrast, in the low-density regime, where excitons do not form a Mott state, the exciton dynamics and transport vary monotonically with νe: increasing νe enhances exciton–electron co-localization and thus Auger probability, producing a gradual lifetime reduction without the abrupt 6Figure 2: GWC induced melting of exciton Mott order and ballistic transport in the higher moiré band. a-b , Time-resolved PL images comparing the spatial spread of the exciton cloud at the exciton Mott regime, νe = 0 .60 (a) and νe = 2 /3 (b); at the GWC commensurability the cloud propagates markedly farther, indicating enhanced mobility. c, False-color map of PL intensity versus delay and νe, highlighting accelerated PL decay that marks the melting of exciton Mott by GWCs at critical fraction fillings νe = 1 /5, 1/3, 2/5, 1/2, 2/3. d, Corresponding map of MSD showing similar abrupt changes at critical fraction fillings. e electron configuration at νe = 1 /5, 2/5, 1/2, 2/3

and the enhanced intersite hopping due to exciton-electron repulsion. f-g , low density weak corre-lation regime at Nex ≈ 0.3 excitons per moiré cell. f, False-color map of time-resolved PL intensity versus delay and electron filling νe; the decay accelerates gradually with increasing νe. g, Corre-sponding map of MSD showing a steady increase in spatial spread as νe rises. h, early time MSD versus delay for representative fillings ( νe = 0 .60 , 2/3, 0.70 ) at the exciton Mott regime; MSD ∝ t2

up to ∼ 20 ns at νe ≈ 2/3, indicative of enhanced ballistic expansion. i, early time MSD versus delay for representative fillings ( νe = 0 .60 , 2/3, 0.70 ) at low density regime, showing no clear bal-listic transport and insensitivity to GWC fillings. j, Schematics of transient exciton ballistic flow during Mott melting, strong electron–exciton repulsion at GWC sites perforates the exciton Mott background and transiently enhances the effective hopping J on a sub-unity-filled exciton sublattice (indicated by the orange ribbons). 7features associated with melting of excitonic order (Fig. 2f). Transport in this regime also increases 

smoothly with νe (Fig 2g), consistent with a gradual enhancement of intersite hopping. The absence of abrupt changes at low exciton density indicates that competition between exciton and charge or-der, rather than screening alone, drives the sharp features near GWC fillings. If screening were the dominant mechanism, comparable anomalies would appear even in the single-exciton limit; instead, the response is smooth and monotonic. In both Mott and low-density regimes, exciton transport increases at νe = 1 , when the electrons form a Mott insulator, their immobility lowers the effective moiré potential experienced by excitons, thereby facilitating intersite hopping. The observation of enhanced transport at νe = 1 at low exciton density is consistent with recent reports based on steady-state PL imaging. 38 

A key observation association with the melting of the exciton Mott insulator is the emergence of a ballistic transport window: for t ≲ 20 ns in the Mott regime, MSD( t) ∝ t2 (Fig. 2h), consistent with ballistic flow of excitons. This ballistic expansion is maximized near GWCs and then slows markedly beyond ∼ 30 ns (seEFig. 2h, also Fig. 2a-b). By contrast, at low exciton density, where an exciton Mott state does not form, such ballistic expansion was not clearly observed (Fig. 2i). This difference is consistent with that the observed ballistic exciton flow arises from collective coherence: at low density, single-particle behavior dominates and the effective diffusion constant increases with electron doping due to disorder screening and incoherent interaction-assisted hopping. By contrast, at high exciton density—and particularly at commensurate electron fillings that stabilize order—the dynamics exhibit a coherent ballistic window (MSD ∝ t2, enhanced Dmax ), suggestive of a collective transport regime. A microscopic picture unifies the observations in Fig. 2: strong electron–exciton repulsion at GWC sites forces co-localized excitons into a higher-energy moiré band with enhanced effective hopping J2

relative to the lowest-band hopping J1 (Fig. 2e). An enhancement of hopping in a higher band due to exciton–exciton repulsion has been predicted theoretically. 39 We expect an analogous mechanism here, with the electron crystal providing an additional repulsive interaction that promotes excitons into the more mobile band. Together, exciton–exciton and exciton–electron repulsion generate tran-sient populations in high-J channels, enabling the observed ballistic transport (Fig. 2j). The lifetime of these channels is ultimately limited by Auger recombination, exciton–exciton annihilation, and density depletion. We note that ballistic transport is expected as the filling is tuned below unity in the lowest moiré exciton band in the absence of disorder. In TMD heterobilayers, however, unavoid-able disorder and scattering typically leave the effective exciton hopping J smaller than both the thermal energy kBT and the site-to-site energetic disorder ∆, suppressing long-range phase coher-ence. 26,27,40,41 As a result, ballistic transport has not been observed for lowest-band moiré excitons. Consistent with this, previous WS 2/WSe 2 measurements at charge neutrality observed only diffusive motion below unity filling, indicating that J for the lowest moiré excitons is small relative to thermal and disorder scales. 13,29 

Exciton–exciton repulsion Uxx can also promote higher-band occupation and lead to ballistic trans-8port. The higher-energy doubly occupied moiré site is expected to have a larger effective hopping than the lowest band. However, this exciton–exciton-interaction-driven ballistic window is expected to be shorter, because exciton–exciton annihilation occurs on a faster timescale and rapidly de-pletes the high-density exciton population. While ordered electrons near GWC fillings can sustain a longer-lived ballistic response by reshaping the exciton energy landscape through cross-species repulsion. 

Non-equilibrium exciton phase transition . As excitons either recombine or migrate to vacant, electron-free sites, the system evolves into a mixed electron–exciton Mott configuration and motion is suppressed and the exciton decay is dominated by single exciton recombination after the conclusion of Auger recombination. Fig. 3 summarizes the phase transition dynamics at high (left; a–c ) and low ( d–f ) exciton density near νe = 2 /3, together with the summary of the νe dependence ( g–h ). PL decay curves taken near the critical GWC filling νe = 2 /3 are shown in Fig. 3a and the exciton MSD is shown in Fig. 3b for the Mott regime. An early-time fast PL decay and rapid MSD spread define a transient ballistic window (orange shaded area in a-f), followed by a marked slowdown of both recombination and transport as the mixed Mott state establishes (green and blue shaded area in a-f). To quantify the phase transition dynamics, we evaluate the time-dependent diffusivity by: 

D(t) = 12

ddt MSD( t). (2) For ballistic motion, D(t) increases linearly with time t, whereas for diffusive motion D(t) is time independent. As shown in Fig. 3c, D(t) grows linearly and reaches a maximum Dmax at tmax within the ballistic window tmax of ≈ 20 ns , and slope gives the ballistic velocity 42 . Notably, for the high density Mott regime Dmax exhibits sharp enhancements at GWC fillings (Fig. 3c) (orange shaded area in Fig. 3c). For the low density regimEFig. 3f, the ballistic transport window is not clearly observed, and the transport does not show strong νe dependence. Once the melting dynamics con-cludes at ∼ 30 ns (green shaded area), the motion slows down and D(t) ≈ 0, consistent with the phase transition to a mixed electron–exciton Mott state. This sequence, ballistic expansion, peak Dmax , and then the slow down of exciton motion, gives the time domain picture of a non-equilibrium mixed–Mott transition. Importantly, both the electronic and excitonic orders impact this phase transition. In the exciton Mott regime, bi–exponential fits to the PL dynamics show that the fast component ( τfast ≈ 5 ns, more details in Extended data Fig. 7), associated with Auger recombination, increases sharply at the GWCs νe = 1 /5, 1/3, 2/5, 1/2, and 

2/3 (Fig. 3g, blue). In addition, the peak mobility Dmax (Fig. 3h, blue) shows pronounced maxima at the same fractional fillings. This arises because the reduced scattering in the crystalline electron background and enhanced ballistic transport. 9Figure 3: Dynamics of the exciton phase transition. a–c , High–exciton–density (Mott) regime. 

a, PL transients for selected νe showing a pronounced acceleration at νe = 2 /3; beyond ∼ 30 ns, single–exciton dynamics dominate. b, Mean–squared displacement (MSD) versus delay at νe =0.60 , 2/3, and 0.70 , demonstrating enhanced transport at the GWC commensurability νe = 2 /3.

c, Time–dependent diffusion coefficient D(t) = 12 d[MSD( t)] /dt for the same fillings: D(t) grows linearly within the ballistic window and collapses toward zero as the mixed electron–exciton Mott state emerges. d–f , Low–exciton–density regime. d, PL transients for selected νe exhibit no sharp changes near νe = 2 /3; single–exciton dynamics dominate after ∼ 20 ns. e, MSD versus delay at the same νe values shows no strong νe dependence. f, D(t) for the low–density case: no clear ballistic window and D(t) → 0 at late times. The color-shaded regions in panels (a–f) indicate the progression t –mixed-Mott transition: orange denotes ballistic expansion, green indicates a slowdown of exciton motion, and blue marks the mixed-Mott regime. g, Fractional weight of the fast decay component (τfast ) versus νe: in the Mott regime it exhibits pronounced maxima at νe = 1 /5, 1/3, 2/5, 1/2 and 

2/3, consistent with Auger enhancement at GWC fillings; in the low–density regime it increases monotonically with νe. h, Peak ballistic mobility Dmax versus νe: sharp enhancements appear at GWC commensurate fillings ( 1/5, 1/3, 1/2, 2/3) in the Mott regime, whereas in the low–density regime Dmax grows monotonically, reflecting a gradual increase of intersite hopping. i, Schematic of the dynamical sequence: transient exciton ballistic flow during Mott melting, followed by freezing into a mixed electron–exciton Mott state. Exciton–exciton correlations also play an important role. At the low-density single-exciton limit, the dynamics are governed primarily by that increasing νe enhances exciton–electron co-localization, leading to faster Auger recombination and a gradual increase in transport. Subtle anomalies appear near νe = 2 /3, both the exciton spread and the fast-decay fraction show slight dips (Fig. 3g-h, red), 10 consistent with reduced screening when electrons crystallize into a GWC, but these effects are much weaker than in the Mott regime. 

Simulations of a one-dimensional Fermi-Hubbard system. To connect to the underlying mechanism speeding up the melting of exciton Mott in the presence of an electronic Wigner crys-tal, we perform time-dependent numerical simulations using a one-dimensional Fermi-Bose Hub-bard model solved by DMRG in a tensor network formulation (Fig. 4a-c) 43 . Moiré excitons fea-ture long-ranged repulsive interaction due to their dipolar nature. To simplify, we model them as bosons interacting via nearest-neighbor repulsion Vxx which is an order of magnitude smaller than the exciton-exciton on-site interaction Uxx . The electrons are modeled as spinless fermions with nearest-neighbor interaction Ve. Using the quantum trajectory method for open quantum systems, we simulate the time evolution of an exciton package in a Mott insulator phase from an initial box trap state interacting with the electronic system via electron-induced exciton decay 44 . The electrons are prepared in their decoupled independent ground state with a tunable filling νe. The critical filling νc at which they form a GWC (charge density wave) is νc = 12 in this geometry 45 . The electron-induced decay of excitons that models the Auger recombination process is introduced using a term in the Lindblad master equation which is proportional to the density of electrons (for more details see Methods) 46 .The time-dependent exciton distributions for an electronic configuration at and away from critical filling are shown in Fig. 4a and 4b. Since the electron-induced exciton decay is proportional to electron density, having pronounced accumulation of charge in the electronic ground state density leads to exciton decay from every second site. That decrease in population at particular positions breaks up the potential energy glue stemming from the repulsive nearest-neighbor interactions and leads to a faster expansion of the exciton package at νc. Fig. 4c plots the MSD for different electronic fillings νe/ν c. Although the total number of excitons decreases faster for higher νe/ν c (Extended Data Fig. 8) which weakens the interaction glue in general, the positions of the decay have an even stronger influence: At νe = νc the MSD grows the fastest, consistent with the experimental results in Fig. 3b. Note that the comparison between experiment and simulation is qualitative. Our measurements probe a two-dimensional moiré lattice, whereas the model treats a one-dimensional chain. More-over, the theory does not resolve distinct moiré exciton bands (e.g., lowest versus the higher energy band with electron co-localization); instead, we model the higher-energy state reached by excitons co-occupying sites with electrons solely as an increase in loss rate of these excitons. These exci-tons (which in the experiment are in a more mobile band) give the fastest contribution to MSD in the experiments due to theircoherent transport behavior, which is not modeled here. The re-maining single band of exciton modeled in the simulation, however, is an interacting one, meaning that within this band we do not separate excitons in energy. As a consequence, the simulations cannot directly reproduce band-selective observables such as the ballistic transport of the higher exciton band. Despite these simplifications, the calculations consistently capture the mechanism: 11 electron crystallinity perforates the exciton Mott background, renormalizes the effective hopping on a sub-unity-filled sublattice, and enhances loss channels at co-occupied sites. Together, theory and experiment indicate that strong exciton–electron correlations—rather than screening alone—are the primary driver of the observed exciton phase transitions. 

Exciton dynamics and transport in the lowest moiré band . We further investigate transport in the mixed exciton–electron Mott insulator by monitoring the lowest moiré exciton band at 1.415 eV (Fig. 4d-g). The excitation conditions match those of Fig. 2c,d (high density; exciton-Mott regime). This PL emission arises from singly occupied sites, i.e., an exciton residing without electron co-localization. The corresponding lifetime is long, ∼ 150 ns, and depends only weakly on electron filling νe (Fig. 4d), as illustrated by representative traces near νe = 2 /3 (Fig. 4e). This contrasts sharply with the fast decay and the strong νe sensitivity of the Auger recombination of the higher-energy co-localized (electron–exciton) band shown in Fig. 2c. The νe-dependent MSD (Fig. 4f,g) confirms that, once the mixed Mott state is established, exciton motion is strongly suppressed: the effective diffusion constant is over one order of magnitude smaller than the peak ballistic value Dmax .Thus, strong exciton–electron correlations slow the lowest-band transport (schematized in Fig. 4h). Although the νe dependence of MSD is much weaker here than for the higher-energy band, we still observe enhanced motion at GWC fillings (e.g., near 2/3 in Fig. 4g). This trend is consistent with the DMRG results: GWCs perforate the exciton Mott background, weakening the “glue” that enforces incompressibility. 

# Discussion 

We demonstrate control of a bosonic Mott insulator state by an electronic crystal in a WS 2/WSe 2

moiré heterobilayer, directly observing collective ballistic exciton motion associated with the melting of exciton Mott insulator. Crucially, GWCs of electrons that perforate the exciton Mott background create a transient collective ballistic exciton flow, by elevating excitons co-occupying sites with elec-trons of the crystal to a higher band and which is visible only through time-and energy-resolved imaging. This establishes that cross-species correlations are critical for controlling dynamical phase transitions in moiré Bose–Fermi mixtures. A key observation is that the coherence of excitons promoted to a higher moiré band and co-localized with electrons is extended by two cooperative effects: (i) strong exciton correlations, and (ii) electron crystallization, which suppresses disorder and momentum-randomizing scattering and fluctuations. Together, these factors result in ballistic exciton transport, explaining the pronounced peaks at GWC fractional filling and the absence of sharp features in the weakly correlated, low exciton-density regime. Our results complement and extend equilibrium studies of correlated phases in TMD moirés in a unique way, such as exciton density waves, Mott insulators, and mixed Mott behavior, by revealing the hierarchy of dynami-cal processes and interactions that govern phase transitions. collective ballistic exciton transport has also been reported under equilibrium conditions in TMD heterobilayers, where (near-)perfect Coulomb drag was observed in electrical measurements. 47,48 We note that ballistic transport alone does not establish superfluidity; further evidence of phase coherence is also required. 12 Figure 4: Numerical simulations of a one-dimensional Fermi-Hubbard system (a-c) and exciton dynamics and transport in the lowest moiré band (d-h). Time-dependent excitons interacting with an electronic Wigner crystal ( a) and with a delocalized electronic background ( b), obtained from quantum-trajectory tensor-network simulations. Curves show the mean site occu-pancy ¯nxi at successive delays after preparing an exciton Mott plateau. In a, stimulated decay at electron-occupied sites perforates the exciton density at every second site, whereas in b the decay is approximately spatially uniform. Insets: electronic density at t = 0 .0/J . c, Simulated mean MSD for several electron fillings; dynamics are fastest at νe = νc, where site-specific perforation most effectively removes the interaction “glue”. For νe > ν c the total loss is greater, but early freezing of the packet limits expansion. In a-c , solid lines denote trajectory averages and shaded bands indicate the 1σ spread arising from the open-system treatment. d-h exciton dynamics and transport in the lowest moiré band probed at 1.415 eV. d False-colour map of time-resolved PL intensity at 1.415 eV (lowest moiré exciton band) in the high-density regime; the emission arises from singly occupied sites and varies only weakly with electron filling. e, Representative PL transients for νe = 0 .60 , 2/3,

and 0.70 , highlighting the weak νe-dependence of the lifetime for the lowest band. f, Mean-squared displacement (MSD) versus delay and electron filling νe, showing strongly suppressed motion once the mixed Mott state is established. g, MSD for the same fillings, confirming slow expansion and the absence of a ballistic window. h, Schematic: mixed exciton–electron Mott configuration (left) and lowest-band transport channel (right) in which motion is quenched by strong correlations. 13 These results provide a framework for engineering interaction-driven phases, such as exciton fluids and density waves, through tailored coupling between bosonic and fermionic degrees of freedom in moiré superlattices. More broadly, they illustrate how one quantum order can serve as a control knob for another, pointing to time-domain materials design in which phases are programmed by transient interactions and dissipation. Analogous to the collective flow of fermions imprinted by a Bose–Einstein condensate 7, we find that electron orders modulate excitons by elevating them into a higher moiré band with enhanced J, yielding a ballistic t2 window before dissipation restores lo-calization. Further, engineered dissipation is showed to delay Mott melting and suppress coherence growth in cold-atom Bose–Hubbard lattices via quantum-Zeno suppression of tunneling, underscor-ing dissipation as a tunable resource for non-equilibrium phase control. 24 Our results realize an electronic-order–driven variant of this idea in a solid, where an electron crystal can be used as a control for dissipative pathways. 

# Methods 

Sample assembly and characterization 

Bulk WS 2 and WSe 2 were mechanically exfoliated onto Si substrates capped with 285 nm SiO 2.Monolayer flakes were first screened by optical contrast and then confirmed by atomic force mi-croscopy (AFM). Crystal axes were identified via second-harmonic generation (SHG). Further sample details can be found also in our previous publication 29 .Bottom gates were fabricated by evaporating Pt contacts onto a preassembled graphite/hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) stack made with a polycarbonate (PC) dry-transfer workflow. Prior to placing the aligned WS 2/WSe 2 bilayer, the gate surface was “polished” using contact-mode AFM (Bruker Dimension Icon). After the heterobilayer transfer, we performed an additional surface clean and used piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM) to extract the moiré wavelength and deduce the relative twist angle. A top graphite/hBN laminate was then transferred to complete the dual-gated device. 

Steady-state photoluminescence spectroscopy 

Steady-state (time-averaged) photoluminescence (PL) spectra were acquired with the sample mounted in a temperature-stabilized closed-cycle cryostat (Montana Instruments). Unless otherwise noted, measurements were performed at 6 K . Excitation was provided by optical parametric am-plifiers (Light Conversion; ∼ 300 fs , 750 kHz repetition rate). A 100 × Zeiss objective (NA = 0 .9)positioned inside the cryostat focused 740 nm pulses to a diffraction-limited spot and collected the epi-emitted PL. For each electron filling, the emission was directed to an Andor imaging spectrom-eter and dispersed onto a CCD for detection. 

Time-resolved PL dynamics and exciton transport imaging 

Ultrafast measurements were performed with the sample in a temperature-stabilized cryostat (Montana Instruments). Unless noted, data were taken at 6 K. Excitation pulses came from optical parametric amplifiers (Light Conversion; ∼300 fs, 750 kHz). A 100 × Zeiss objective (NA = 0.9) 14 inside the cryostat focused the 740 nm pulses to a diffraction-limited spot and collected epi-emitted PL. The PL was focused by a 300mm achromat to the image plane, where a multimode-fiber tip mounted on a motorized stage sampled the signal and delivered photons to a single-photon avalanche detector (Excelitas SPCM-NIR). Time-correlated single-photon counting (PicoQuant PicoHarp 300) yielded the PL decay curves. For spectrally and spatially resolved PL microscopy, a transmission grating was inserted upstream of the 300 mm lens to disperse the emission before fiber coupling. 

Determination of exciton density 

We estimate the injected exciton density per pulse from the pump fluence and sample absorp-tance. For a Gaussian pump with fluence profile 

F (x, y ) = F0 exp 



− x2 + y2

2σ2



, (3) the pulse energy is the integral over the focal plane, 

E =

Z Z 

F (x, y ) dx dy = 2 πσ 2F0, (4) where F0 is the peak fluence at the beam center and σ is the Gaussian width (defined by the 1/e 

radius of the fluence; see Methods for beam-size conventions). For a repetition rate f = 750 kHz and average power P = 110 nW , the pulse energy is 

E = Pf = 1 .47 × 10 −13 J. (5) With σ = 0 .22 μm and the relation (4), we obtain the peak fluence 

F0 = E

2πσ 2 ≈ 2.4 × 10 1 μJ cm −2, (6) evaluated at the pump photon energy Eγ = 1 .68 eV . The corresponding photon areal density at the beam center is 

Nγ = F0

Eγ

≈ 24 μJ cm −2

1.68 eV ≈ 9 × 10 13 cm −2 pulse −1. (7) Taking a sample absorptance of A = 0 .02 , the injected exciton density at the beam center is 

nex = A N γ ≈ 1.8 × 10 12 cm −2 pulse −1. (8) This corresponds to an average injected filling of ⟨N0⟩ ≈ 1 exciton per moiré unit cell in WSe 2/WS 2.

Determination of doping level and filling factor 

Carrier densities were obtained from a dual–gate parallel–plate capacitor model. The top (bot-tom) hBN thickness was measured by atomic force microscopy (AFM), and the corresponding gate 15 capacitances were evaluated as 

Ct(b) = ε0 εhBN 

tt(b)

, εhBN ≈ 3, (9) where tt(b) denotes the top (bottom) hBN thickness. For gate voltages referenced to the band edges, 

∆Vt and ∆Vb, the two–dimensional carrier density is 

n = Ct ∆Vt + Cb ∆Vb

e , (10) with e the elementary charge. The moiré lattice constant aM , determined by piezoresponse force microscopy (PFM), sets the moiré unit–cell density 

n0 = 2

√3 a2

> M

, (11) so that the filling factor is 

ν = nn0

. (12) Filling–factor assignments were corroborated by gate–dependent differential reflectance and photo-luminescence. 

Lifetime and diffusion-constant fitting 

Time-resolved photoluminescence traces were fit with a bi-exponential decay convolved with a Gaussian instrument response. Specifically, the signal is modeled as 

S(t) = Af e−t/τ f + As e−t/τ s , G(t) = 1

√2π σ IRF 

exp 



− (t − t0)2

2σ2IRF 



, (13) and the measured intensity is 

I(t) = 

Z ∞−∞ 

S(t′) G(t − t′) dt ′. (14) Here, τf and τs denote the fast and slow decay constants, respectively associated with excitons co-localized with an electron and single-exciton decay. In the global analysis across electron fillings, 

τf and τs are shared for all datasets, while the amplitudes Af , A s and background offsets vary per filling. Fits were obtained by nonlinear least squares with the Gaussian width σIRF .To extract the time-dependent diffusion constant D(t), we evaluate the time derivative of the exciton mean-squared displacement (MSD) using equation (2) in the main text. The derivative is computed from binned MSD data using finite differences with a 3 ns bin size for t ∈ [0 , 30] ns and a 10 ns bin size for t > 30 ns .

Numerical simulations 

The theoretical simulations were performed using the matrix product state formalism, expressing the one-dimensional wavefunction as a tensor network. This approach allows to solve quantum-mechanical problems in a numerically exact manner, controlled by the bond dimension of the matrix 16 product state. Since this method is, however, limited to systems with low entanglement, we focus on a one-dimensional system here. The excitons and electrons are described in a joint one-dimensional Fermi-Hubbard model with nearest-neighbor repulsive interaction between excitons Vxx , repulsive on-site interaction between excitons Uxx , exciton hopping J, electron hopping t, repulsive nearest-neighbor interaction between electrons Ve, as well as on-site potentials μx and μe:

ˆH = − J X

> i

ˆb† 

> i

ˆbi+1 + h.c. 



+ Uxx 

2

X

> i

ˆnxi (ˆ nxi − 1) + Vxx 

X

> i

ˆnxi ˆnxi+1 

− t X

> i



ˆc† 

> i

ˆci+1 + h.c. 



+ Ve

X

> i



ˆnei − 12

  

ˆnei+1 − 12



.

(15) Here ˆb† (ˆb) denote bosonic creation (annihilation) operators for the excitons, ˆc† (ˆc) are fermionic creation (annihilation) operators for the electrons and ˆnx = ˆb†ˆb, ˆne = ˆ c† ˆc denote their respective number operators. There are no interactions between electrons and excitons in this model. To ease simulation, we have restrained the model to nearest-neighbor interactions instead of long-ranged interactions. Both the exciton hopping J and the electron hopping t are set to one and we choose a system size of L = 41 . To mimic the energy scale in the experiment qualitatively, the interactions are set to Uxx /J = 100 , Vxx /J = 5 and Ve/t = 7 throughout all calculations. Due to the numerical description, the dimension of the local bosonic Hilbert space of the excitons must be truncated. Since the high value of Uxx effectively suppresses multiple occupancies, we use Nmax = 2 as maximum bosonic occupation. We have explicitly verified that our results are stable with regard to increasing or decreasing Nmax .The open quantum system dynamics are simulated as follows: First, by applying DMRG to the Hamiltonian 43 

ˆHbox = ˆH +  

> ⌈L−W
> 2⌉

X

> j=1

Vbox ˆnxj +

> L

X  

> j=⌈L−W
> 2⌉+W

Vbox ˆnxj , (16) the system is prepared in a ground state where Nx = 10 excitons are trapped in a box trap potential of height Vbox /J = 10 6 and width W = Nx in the center of the chain, and in parallel Ne = ve·L electrons form their independent decoupled ground state. At t = 0 .0/J the trap is released instantaneously, and the system evolves under the Lindblad master equation for open systems 44 

ddt ˆρ = −i

h ˆH, ˆρ

i

+ X

> j



ˆLj ˆρˆL† − 12 {ˆL† 

> j

ˆLj, ˆρ}



(17) with jump operators ˆLj = √2γ ˆnejˆbj , which correspond to an electron-induced decay (Auger recom-bination) process of an exciton. Here the parameter γ controls the decay rate (connected to τxe and is set to γ/J = 0 .1 for all calculations. The integration of Eq. (17) is achieved via the quantum trajectory method, which reproduces the statistics of the Lindblad equation by randomly sampling 

Ntraj trajectories and averaging over all trajectories in the end 44 . Each individual trajectory is sim-ulated using the Time-Dependent Block Decimation (TEBD) algorithm with a second order Trotter 17 decomposition 43 . For each filling, we simulated Ntraj = 999 trajectories which we converged with bond dimension χ = 900 and time step ∆t = 0 .001 /J . The relative filling ratios νe/ν c correspond to absolute electron numbers Ne = P 

> i

¯nei in the following manner: νe/ν c = 0 .714 ↔ Ne = 15 ,

νe/ν c = 1 .0 ↔ Ne = 21 , νe/ν c = 1 .286 ↔ Ne = 27 . Calculations were performed using the TeNPy library (version 1.0.3) 49 .The mean of the occupation at site i and its statistical uncertainty is then obtained through 

¯nxi = 1

Ntraj 

> Ntraj

X

> m=1

⟨ˆnxi ⟩(m) (18) 

σ¯nxi =

vuut 1

> Ntraj −1

PNtraj 

> m=1

 ⟨ˆnxi ⟩(m) − ¯nxi

2

Ntraj 

(19) Here ⟨ˆnxi ⟩(m) denotes the expectation value of ˆnxi at site i in trajectory m. To calculate the time-dependent mean MSD 

R2(t) = 

PLi=1 ¯nxi (i − i0)2

PLi=1 ¯nxi

(20) MSD = pR2(t) − R2(t = 0) (21) and its statistical uncertainty we apply non-linear Gaussian error propagation in first order 50 :

Kij = 1(Ntraj − 1) 

> Ntraj

X

> m=1



⟨ˆnxi ⟩(m) − ¯nxi

  

⟨ˆnxj ⟩(m) − ¯nxj



) (22) 

σ2 

> R2

= 1

PLi=1 ¯nxi

2

X

> ij

 (i − i0)2 − R2 Kij 

 (j − i0)2 − R2 (23) 

σMSD = σR2

2 · MSD σMSD = σMSD 

pNtraj 

. (24) The index i0 = L/ 2 denotes the center of the lattice. Mean and uncertainty of the total number of excitons Nx = P 

> i

¯nxi are calculated with the same recipe: 

σNx =

s P 

> ij

Kij 

Ntraj 

. (25) All plots in Fig. 4a-c show the mean as solid line and one standard deviation of the mean as shaded area. 

# Acknowledgments 

This work is mainly supported by U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences through QuPIDC EFRC award DE-SC0025620 (for the transient and time-resolved optical spec-18 troscopy and microscopy work at Purdue). We also acknowledge funding from the Deutsche Forschungs-gemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation) - 531215165 (Research Unit “OPTIMAL”) for the theory contributions. Simulations were performed on the HPC system at the Max Planck In-stitute for Structure and Dynamics of Matter. This work was partially supported by the Max Planck-New York City Center for Non-Equilibrium Quantum Phenomena. The Flatiron Institute is a division of the Simons Foundation. The work at U. Washington is supported by DoE, BES under the award DE-SC0018171. K.W. and T.T. acknowledge support from the JSPS KAKENHI (Grant Numbers 21H05233 and 23H02052), the CREST (JPMJCR24A5), JST and World Premier International Research Center Initiative (WPI), MEXT, Japan. 

# Author Contributions 

L.H.and D.M.K.designed the experiments and theoretical simulations; S.D. and J.P. carried out the optical measurements; H.P. and X.X. fabricated and characterized samples; J.R., A.F. and D.M.K. carried out and analyzed the DMRG calculations; K.W. and T.T. grew the hBN crystals; L.H. wrote the manuscript with input from all authors. 

# Data availability 

All data supporting the findings of this study are available within the paper and its Extended Data. Source data are provided with this paper. 

# Code availability 

Codes that support the findings of this study are available upon request. Codes include scripts for data processing and theoretical modelling. 

# References 

1. Park, H. et al. Dipole ladders with large Hubbard interaction in a moiré exciton lattice. Nature Physics, 1–7 (2023). 2. Wang, X. et al. Intercell moiré exciton complexes in electron lattices. Nature Materials 22, 

599–604 (2023). 3. Chen, D. et al. Tuning moiré excitons and correlated electronic states through layer degree of freedom. Nature Communications 13, 4810 (2022). 4. Arsenault, E. A. Two-Dimensional Moiré Polaronic Electron Crystals. Physical Review Letters 

132 (2024). 5. Mathey, L., Tsai, S.-W. & Neto, A. H. C. Competing Types of Order in Two-Dimensional Bose-Fermi Mixtures. Physical Review Letters 97, 030601 (2006). 19 6. Sugawa, S. et al. Interaction and filling-induced quantum phases of dual Mott insulators of bosons and fermions. Nature Physics 7, 642–648 (2011). 7. Yan, Z. Z. et al. Collective flow of fermionic impurities immersed in a Bose–Einstein condensate. 

Nature Physics 20, 1395–1400 (2024). 8. Zhang, L., Ni, R. & Zhou, Y. Controlling quantum phases of electrons and excitons in moiré superlattices. Journal of Applied Physics 133, 080901 (2023). 9. Xu, Y. et al. Correlated insulating states at fractional fillings of moiré superlattices. Nature 

587, 214–218 (2020). 10. Mak, K. F. & Shan, J. Semiconductor moiré materials. Nature Nanotechnology 17, 686–695 (2022). 11. Liu, E. et al. Signatures of moiré trions in WSe2/MoSe2 heterobilayers. Nature 594, 46–50 (2021). 12. Regan, E. C. et al. Mott and generalized Wigner crystal states in WSe2/WS2 moiré superlat-tices. Nature 579, 359–363 (2020). 13. Gao, B. et al. Excitonic Mott insulator in a Bose-Fermi-Hubbard system of moiré WS2/WSe2 heterobilayer. Nature Communications 15, 2305 (2024). 14. Wang, X. et al. Moiré trions in MoSe2/WSe2 heterobilayers. Nature Nanotechnology 16, 1208– 1213 (2021). 15. Fan, F.-R. Magnetic and nematic order of Bose-Fermi mixtures in moiré superlattices of two-dimensional semiconductors. Physical Review B 111 (2025). 16. Zerba, C. Tuning Transport in Solid-State Bose-Fermi Mixtures by Feshbach Resonances. Phys-ical Review Letters 134 (2025). 17. Zeng, Y. et al. Exciton density waves in Coulomb-coupled dual moiré lattices. Nature Materials 

22, 175–179 (2023). 18. Cai, J. et al. Signatures of fractional quantum anomalous Hall states in twisted MoTe2. Nature 

622, 63–68 (2023). 19. Xie, T. et al. Long-lived isospin excitations in magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene. Nature 

633, 77–82 (2024). 20. Anderson, E. et al. Trion sensing of a zero-field composite Fermi liquid. Nature 635, 590–595 (2024). 21. Wang, Y. et al. Hidden states and dynamics of fractional fillings in twisted MoTe2 bilayers. 

Nature 641, 1149–1155 (2025). 22. Ma, R. et al. A dissipatively stabilized Mott insulator of photons. Nature 566, 51–57 (2019). 23. Dagvadorj, G., Kulczykowski, M., Szymańska, M. H. & Matuszewski, M. First-order dissipative phase transition in an exciton-polariton condensate. Physical Review B 104, 165301 (2021). 20 24. Tomita, T., Nakajima, S., Danshita, I., Takasu, Y. & Takahashi, Y. Observation of the Mott insulator to superfluid crossover of a driven-dissipative Bose-Hubbard system. Science Advances 

3, e1701513 (2017). 25. Meneghini, G., Brem, S. & Malic, E. Spatiotemporal dynamics of moiré excitons in van der Waals heterostructures. Nature Communications 16, 8557 (2025). 26. Lagoin, C. Key role of the moiré potential for the quasicondensation of interlayer excitons in van der Waals heterostructures. Physical Review B 103 (2021). 27. Götting, N., Lohof, F. & Gies, C. Moir\’e-Bose-Hubbard model for interlayer excitons in twisted transition metal dichalcogenide heterostructures. Physical Review B 105, 165419 (2022). 28. Paik, E., Zhang, L., Mak, K. F., Shan, J. & Deng, H. Excitons and polaritons in two-dimensional transition metal dichalcogenides: a tutorial. Advances in Optics and Photonics 16, 1064–1132 (2024). 29. Deng, S. et al. Frozen non-equilibrium dynamics of exciton Mott insulators in moiré superlat-tices. Nature Materials 24, 527–534 (2025). 30. Huang, X. et al. Correlated insulating states at fractional fillings of the WS2/WSe2 moiré lattice. Nature Physics 17, 715–719 (2021). 31. Li, H. et al. Imaging two-dimensional generalized Wigner crystals. Nature 597, 650–654 (2021). 32. Xiong, R. et al. Correlated insulator of excitons in WSe2/WS2 moiré superlattices. Science 

380, 860–864 (2023). 33. Haug, A. Auger recombination in direct-gap semiconductors: band-structure effects. Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics 16, 4159 (1983). 34. Wang, F. Auger recombination of excitons in one-dimensional systems. Physical Review B 73 

(2006). 35. Akselrod, G. M. et al. Visualization of exciton transport in ordered and disordered molecular solids. Nature Communications 5, 3646 (2014). 36. Kulig, M. et al. Exciton Diffusion and Halo Effects in Monolayer Semiconductors. Physical Review Letters 120, 207401 (2018). 37. Ginsberg, N. S. & Tisdale, W. A. Spatially Resolved Photogenerated Exciton and Charge Transport in Emerging Semiconductors. Annual Review of Physical Chemistry 71, 1–30 (2020). 38. Upadhyay, P. et al. Giant enhancement of exciton diffusion near an electronic Mott insulator 

2025. 39. Brem, S. & Malic, E. Bosonic Delocalization of Dipolar Moiré Excitons. Nano Letters 23, 

4627–4633 (2023). 40. Pollet, L. Absence of a Direct Superfluid to Mott Insulator Transition in Disordered Bose Systems. Physical Review Letters 103 (2009). 41. Dupuis, N. Superfluid–Bose-glass transition in a system of disordered bosons with long-range hopping in one dimension. Physical Review A 110, 033315 (2024). 21 42. Moix, J. M., Khasin, M. & Cao, J. Coherent quantum transport in disordered systems: I. The influence of dephasing on the transport properties and absorption spectra on one-dimensional systems. New Journal of Physics 15, 085010 (2013). 43. Schollwoeck, U. The Density-Matrix Renormalization Group in the Age of Matrix Product States. Annals of Physics 326, 96–192 (2011). 44. Daley, A. J. Quantum Trajectories and Open Many-Body Quantum Systems. Advances in Physics 63, 77–149 (4, 2014). 45. Giamarchi, T. Quantum Physics in One Dimension (18, 2003). 46. Lindblad, G. On the Generators of Quantum Dynamical Semigroups. Communications in Math-ematical Physics 48, 119–130 (1, 1976). 47. Qi, R. et al. Perfect Coulomb drag and exciton transport in an excitonic insulator. Science 

388, 278–283 (2025). 48. Nguyen, P. X. et al. Perfect Coulomb drag in a dipolar excitonic insulator. Science 388, 274– 278 (2025). 49. Hauschild, J. et al. Tensor network Python (TeNPy) version 1. SciPost Phys. Codebases, 41 (2024). 50. Tellinghuisen, J. Statistical Error Propagation. The Journal of Physical Chemistry A 105, 

3917–3921 (1, 2001). 22 Extended Data 

Extended Data Figure 1: Device configuration and optical micrograph. (a) Schematic of the dual-gated, H-stacked WS 2/WSe 2 moiré heterobilayer encapsulated by hBN with graphite gates and Pt contacts. (b) Optical image of the completed device used for time- and energy-resolved PL measure-ments at 6 K. (c) Gate dependent photoluminescence spectra of the device excited by continuous wave 740 nm laser. 23 Extended Data Figure 2: Low-density PL spectra below the Mott threshold. Steady-state PL taken at low exciton density ( N0 ≈ 0.3 per moiré cell) across electron filling νe, showing that the blue-shifted shoulder persists below the Mott limit, consistent with excitons promoted to a higher moiré band by local electron–exciton repulsion at fractional fillings. 24 Extended Data Figure 3: PL at νe = 0 .60 and 2/3 and difference spectrum. Comparison of spectra highlights the emergence of a blue-shifted shoulder near 1.425 eV at the GWC commensurability 

νe = 2 /3, attributed to excitons co-localized with electrons and promoted to a more mobile moiré band; the difference spectrum isolates this feature from the emission from the two excitons occupying the same site. 25 Extended Data Figure 4: Spectrally resolved transient PL imaging setup. OPA-pumped, diffraction-limited excitation and epi-collection geometry with spectral dispersion prior to fiber coupling for raster-scanned, single-photon counting detection. Abbreviations: OPA, optical parametric amplifier; L, lens; PH, pinhole; BS, beam splitter; LP, long-pass filter; Gr, grating; MMF, multimode fiber; SPD, single-photon detector. 26 Extended Data Figure 5: Energy and time-resolved PL images at high exciton density (Mott regime, 

N0 ≈ 5). Representative spatial PL maps versus delay and νe for the blue-shifted (co-localized) exciton emission, showing an enlarged spatial spread and faster decay near GWC fillings (e.g., 

νe = 2 /3) that mark accelerated melting of the exciton Mott state. 27 Extended Data Figure 6: Energy- and time-resolved PL images at low exciton density (weakly correlated, N0 ≈ 0.3). Spatial PL evolution for the same spectral window as in Extended Data Fig. 5, revealing a smooth, monotonic increase of transport with νe and the absence of abrupt commensurability-locked changes characteristic of Mott melting. 28 Extended Data Figure 7: Global bi-exponential analysis of PL dynamics. Fits used to extract fast (Auger, τfast ∼ 5 ns) and slow (single-exciton, τslow ∼ 108 ns), example is shown at νe = 2 /3.29 Extended Data Figure 8: Numerical simulations of the loss dynamics using a one-dimensional Fermi-Hubbard system. Simulated exciton population dynamics for several electron fillings; dynamics are fastest at νe = νc, where site-specific perforation most effectively removes the interaction “glue”. For 

νe > ν c the total loss is greater 30