Title: Electrodynamics of Quantum-Critical Conductors and Superconductors

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.10621v1

Published Time: Tue, 14 Apr 2026 01:31:05 GMT

Number of Pages: 196

Markdown Content:
## Uwe Santiago Pracht 

# Electrodynamics of Quantum-Critical Conductors and Superconductors 

## Doctoral Thesis accepted by the University of Stuttgart, Germany arXiv:2604.10621v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 12 Apr 2026 Dedicated to 

Markus Müller, Rainer Veith, and Karl Weber 

who initiated a passion for nature and math right when it was needed the most. Abstract 

> The stars are indifferent to astronomy
> Nada Surf

Any truly remarkable physical theory bears on sim-ple concepts. Although this conjecture naturally with-draws from strict mathematical approval, it has become a working hypothesis, a mantra: If an answer isn’t simple enough, one hasn’t got to the core of the question yet. This claim may strike surprising and the associated am-bition even sound ridiculous given the shape of modern physics; crowded with disparate models, intricate cate-gories, toy models, rules and even more exceptions on the one side, and overwhelmingly complex mathematical models maybe not even linked to the real world on the other side. Yet at the same time, in retrospect, most complicated problems tend to unwind into miraculously simple concepts. Gravity is a property of curved space time, wave and particle are just two manifestations of the same entity, the time-inverted negative-energy solutions of Dirac’s equation are antiparticles, or - the conceptual framework of the presented work - spontaneous breaking of symmetry giving rise to superconductivity and collec-tive excitations. In the most fundamental setting going back to Lan-dau, we understand superconductivity in terms of a com-plex function Ψ( x, t ), the order parameter . If Ψ is zero, the system is in the disordered normal state, if Ψ ac-quires finite values, the system turns superconducting and evolves a long range order we call phase lock. We determine Ψ by constructing a Lagrangian L[Ψ] suited to meet our requirements for, e.g., the conservation of charge, and finding its minimum. From here, it only took only a few of the brightest minds of the 20 th century, to understand the implications: Symmetry breaking causes the superconducting energy gap (Nambu) and leads to angular excitation modes within the degenerate ground-state manifold (Goldstone). Those modes may disappear giving way to massive gauge bosons of electroweak inter-action (Glashow, Salam, Weinberg). The same mecha-nism applies to condensed matter, where it renders pho-tons massive, that is the Meissner effect of superconduc-tivity (Anderson). In the symmetry group of the Stan-6

dard Model, left-overs from gauge transformations are massive bosons we nowadays call Higgs bosons (Englert, Brout, Higgs). In certain superconductors, Higgs- and Goldstone-like excitations of Ψ become well-defined and visible (Varma, Auerbach, Benfatto, and many more). Working out and scrutinizing the implications of the above break-troughs, theoretical and experimental physi-cists are kept busy to this very day with an end not in sight yet. This PhD project is dedicated to the experimental study of materials which, neglecting subtleties for a mo-ment, share a similar phase diagram despite being chem-ically and structurally different: disordered NbN, granu-lar Al, and the Heavy-Fermion metal CeCoIn 5. In these compounds, superconductivity ( Ψ > 0) can continuously be controlled, suppressed, and eventually replaced by a new ground state (with Ψ = 0 ) by turning up a non-thermal parameter such as disorder or magnetic fields. This transition between ground states may take place even at absolute zero temperature, where the quantum nature of the electronic system is the only source of crit-ical fluctuations thus coining the term quantum phase transition . Residing at zero temperature, the quantum phase transition naturally escapes from direct observa-tion. The emergent quantum-critical fluctuations, how-ever, may affect the metallic-, insulating-, or supercon-ducting states at elevated temperatures quite drastically leading to new states of matter beyond our understand-ing of canonical solid-state- or condensed-matter sys-tems such as Cooper-pair insulators or hidden Fermi liq-uids. Understanding the relation between these enig-matic states of matter and quantum criticality and how it gives rise to exotic phenomena and new states of mat-ter is one of the prime intellectual and experimental chal-lenges of solid state physics at date. The experimental approach employed within this work is conceptually very simple: We shine coherent THz radiation on a thin film of the material to be studied, measure the amplitude and phase shift of the transmitted light, and calculate the dynamical conductivity as function of the photons’ energy. Repeating this experiment at different frequen-cies and temperatures we get a handle on how the elec-tronic state, its single-particle- and collective excitations change when the systems are tuned towards quantum 7

criticality. Although the systems studied differ when it comes to the details of superconductivity, quantum crit-icality, and emerging phenomena, the insights we obtain contribute pieces to a puzzle which, once completed, may lead to a unified - and maybe even stunningly simple -picture of quantum-critical superconductors. The first material we studied are thin films of super-conducting NbN with variable degrees of homogeneously distributed disorder. Bearing on celebrated works of An-derson et al. , we know that moderate disorder does not significantly affect superconductivity, while for extreme disorder, the electrons tend to localize forming an insu-lator. In between the antagonizing superconductor and insulator extrema, there must be a region where the elec-trons cannot decide whether to pair up and superconduct or to localize. In spatial dimensions D < 3, this region is shrunk to a quantum critical point (QCP), where Tc =0 and the system undergoes a superconductor-insulator transition (SIT). Although the microscopic mechanism leading to the eventual destruction of superconductivity remains the central open problem, there is no doubt that with the gradual cease of Ψ, fluctuations of its phase-and amplitude degrees-of-freedom are of growing impor-tance to understand the peculiar superconducting state in approach of the QCP. By expanding previous tun-neling spectroscopy measurements by Chand et al. to-wards optical spectroscopy, we systematically compare the superconducting energy gap 2∆ as it appears in the tunneling density-of-states (DOS) with the spectral gap 

Ω in the dissipative conductivity σ1(ν). Using a effec-tive pair-breaking ansatz to fit the tunneling spectra, we obtain the Green’s functions for a given degree of dis-order used to calculate a prediction σ1(ν) based on the value of 2∆ from tunneling. Not unsurprisingly, for only little disorder the inferred prediction agrees well with the optical measurement. However, as disorder increases we identify a growing mismatch between the 2∆ -based prediction and the measured σ1(ν): The spectral gap 

Ω is progressively suppressed below 2∆ and a growing amount of spectral weight piles up on top of the antic-ipated σ1(ν) curve. We demonstrate that this gap-edge absorption channel can quantitatively not be attributed to disorder-induced broadening of the DOS, and instead 8

suggest an alternative explanation. Given its particu-lar properties, we argue that NbN in approach of quan-tum criticality can be understood within a relativistic bosonic O(2) 2D-field theory, for which Auerbach et al. 

envisioned an optically active amplitude-excitation of Ψ

called Higgs mode whose energy, the Higgs mass mH,vanishes critically at the QCP. By isolating the sub-gap absorption from the measured σ1 spectra, we identify the twofold nature of the spectral gap Ω. Far from critical-ity, Ω measures the superconducting gap 2∆ , whereas in approach of the SIT it is identified with mH < 2∆ . Fur-thermore, we find qualitative agreement in the dispersion of the isolated sub-gap mode with Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of the Higgs-mode conductivity by Trivedi et al. substantiating the interpretation that the anomalous low-energy electrodynamics on disordered NbN are due to a amplitude-excitation of Ψ. For the sake of com-pleteness, however, we also address counter arguments calling the applicability of the O(2) model into question and leaving space for future speculations. The second material under study is granular Al, i.e. thin films composed of nano-scaled Al grains coupled across thin insulating barriers into macroscopic arrays. While bulk Al is a conventional superconductor with 

Tc0 = 1 .19 K, the nature of granular Al is strikingly different: as function of decoupling (measured by the normal-state resistivity), Tc is first enhanced up to around 

3Tco at a few 100 μΩcm before it is suppressed at higher resistivities until superconductivity eventually ceases shap-ing a superconducting dome in the phase diagram. If this transition is a direct superconductor-insulating quantum phase transition with a QCP as in homogeneously disor-dered thin films or (given the 3D character of the films) crosses through an inter-metallic phase, is an open ques-tion. In any case, the superconducting properties of granular Al strikingly resemble those of prototypical quan-tum critical superconductors such as high-Tc cuprates and pnictides, low-dimensional organic and heavy-fermion metals. Though being known for half a century, and de-spite several theoretical proposals, the underlying mech-anism enhancing Tc in granular Al has not been iden-tified yet. One prominent mechanism discussed, relies on the nano-scaled size of the grains: Similar to what 9

happens in atoms or nuclei in form of sharp energy lev-els, the electronic density of states tends to discretize as the electrons are spatially confined. Indeed, this can boost the pairing interaction in isolated grains - but also in macroscopic arrays thereof? To identify the origin of the superconducting dome in granular Al, we use op-tical spectroscopy to trace the evolution of the charac-teristic energy scales, that is the pairing amplitude ∆

and the superfluid stiffness J measuring the strength of phase lock, as a function of grain coupling. We show that, starting from well-coupled grains, ∆ grows with progressive grain decoupling, causing the increasing of 

Tc. As the grain-coupling is suppressed further, ∆ sat-urates while Tc decreases, concomitantly with a sharp decline of J. Measurements of the temperature evolu-tion of σ1(ν) reveals a spectral gap persisting in to the normal state on the phase-driven side of the dome while absent on the other. Using a generalized Mattis-Bardeen theory we show that this pseudogap smoothly evolves into the superconducting gap as temperature falls below 

Tc. A second peculiar finding is a sub-gap absorption similar to the one observed in disordered NbN situated at sub-gap energies. Given the nature of granular Al, a interpretation in terms of the Higgs mode is unlikely. Instead, bearing in mind the extremely low superfluid stiffness, we suggest to interpret the excess absorption as optically-active Goldstone modes of Ψ. We quantita-tively substantiate this idea with realistic calculations of the temperature- and frequency dependence of Goldstone modes within the disordered XY model. Our studies not only identify the mechanism shaping the superconduct-ing dome in granular Al, open a route to deterministi-cally enhance bulk-superconductivity by nano engineer-ing, and reveal a pseudogap and Goldstone modes but also establish granular Al as particular simple model to look at enigmatic phenomena in unconventional super-conductors from a new perspective. The third materials subject to investigation, is the heavy-fermion superconductor CeCoIn 5. Other than for NbN and granular Al, where the peculiar superconduct-ing properties arise from a inherently conventional pair-ing mechanism, superconductivity in CeCoIn 5 is uncon-ventional and intimately related to quantum criticality. 10 

The magnetic interaction and eventual hybridization be-tween conduction electrons and localized Ce 3+ moments is the heart of why electrons below ∼ 40 K turn into heavy quasiparticles (QP), i.e. keeping the electrons’ quantum numbers, but acquiring effective masses ex-ceeding the band mass drastically. While the experi-mental status quo leaves little doubt, that the strongly interacting quantum liquid formed by the heavy QP is 

not a canonical Fermi liquid, two natural questions re-mains open: what kind of quantum liquid is it then, and how does it relate to quantum criticality? Both are of great importance given that, at low temperatures, those heavy QP are paired up via an mechanism that is es-sentially unknown and condense into an unconventional 

d-wave superconducting state with even more enigmatic FFLO sub-phase. No matter from which side one wants to tackle the question of superconductivity and quan-tum criticality in CeCoIn 5, a thorough understanding of the non-FL heavy-fermion state is a prerequisite. In this work, we measured the dynamical conductivity σ1 + iσ 2

by dc-transport and phase-sensitive THz transmission spectroscopy in the HF regime at equal energy scales 

kB T ∼ hν on a CeCoIn 5 thin film of unprecedented qual-ity significantly advancing previous THz studies. Within the generalized Drude formalism we calculate the effec-tive mass enhancement which approximately equals the inverse renormalization, m∗/m b ∼ Z−1, and disentan-gle the transport and optical relaxation rates Γ( ν, T ) ∝

ρ1(ν, T ) from the QP one. As expected for a non-FL, we find a strong and non-trivial T - and ν-dependence of 

Z. At the same time, however, the extracted Γ∗ displays approximate T 2- and ν2 behavior - a typical character-istic of a FL. As we demonstrate, this putative paradox unwinds in the context of hidden FL, a special kind of non-FL: Behind the anomalous behavior of resistivity, spin susceptibility, specific heat etc. at odds with canon-ical FL theory, one has well-defined resilient QP obeying 

Γ∗ ∝ ν2, T 2 whose existence, however, is hidden behind an energy-dependent renormalization. To solidify our interpretation we revisit the previously reported anoma-lous T -dependencies of the electronic specific heat, the magnetic susceptibility and spin-lattice relaxation time to our measurements of Z(T ), and prove them consistent with the hidden FL scenario. Triggered by the strong 11 

temperature and frequency dependence of m∗/m b at ap-proximately equal energy scales, we furthermore search for scaling behavior of this quantity as typical signature of quantum criticality. Although a theory for quantum criticality from resilient QP has not been worked out yet, we propose and experimentally verify an approx-imate ν/T scaling ansatz inspired from scaling analysis of the quantum-critical HF metals CeCu 6−xAu x. Our re-sults open a surprising new perspective on the nature of the heavy fermion state in CeCoIn 5, encourage a careful reconsideration of other non-FL systems, and hopefully stimulate theorists to work out the existing models of quantum criticality in HF systems towards m∗/m b scal-ing and resilient QP. This thesis is structured as follows. Chapter 1 dis-cusses a model of superconductivity based on fieldtheo-retical considerations to familiarize the reader with the concept of Ψ, collective modes thereof, and the basic su-perconducting phenomenology from the perspective of 

Ψ. In addition, more on a technical account, the reader is introduced to the Usadel equation and the relevant Green’s functions which, later on, are used to model the density of states and dynamical conductivity of disor-dered superconductors. Although the theoretical back-ground is dispensable for the experimental chapters, the author strongly recommends not to skip it as a proper understanding of the field theoretical concepts (and lan-guage) helps to cast the presented results into a broader context. Each of the experimental chapters 2, 3, and 4 starts with a short summary of the results, an introduc-tion covering basic theoretical aspects of the physical background to acquaint the reader with the particular system, a review of the essential experimental studies, and an embedding of the presented research into the sci-entific status quo. Subsequently, details and the rele-vant aspects (or issues) concerning the measurements, sample preparation and -handling are addressed briefly. (Detailed information concerning the measurement tech-niques and -procedures, the characterization of the low-temperature performance as well as the data treatment and analyses is provided in the Appendix.) The main part of the experimental chapter- discussion and inter-pretation - is prepended with introduction to particular theoretical framework beyond Ch. 1 in which the experi-12 

mental data is subsequently interpreted. In more detail, the Higgs mode in the context of the bosonic O(2) mode in Sec. 2.4, pseudogap and Goldstone modes within the disordered XY model in Sec. 3.4.2 and 3.5, and the the-ory of hidden Fermi liquids in Sec. 4.4. The discussion is closed with an outlook on future experimental studies and theoretical challenges. This structure may appear somewhat cumbersome, yet it eases the understanding as it allows to follow the sequence of arguments directly without the frequent back and forth of the typical theory-materials-experiment-analysis-discussion structure. Uwe S. Pracht, Winter 2016 Acknowledgments 

> I can’t believe I got so far With a head so empty
> The Thermals

At the time I take down these final notes, the year 2016 is about to end - just as a journey initiated in early 2013 with the decision for a PhD in experimental physics, con-densed matter and superconductivity. Aside from all dead ends, nonsensical data, referees who just don’t un-derstand the paper , and endless days and nights in the lab, these four year of PhD research were, more than any-thing else, the following: a great opportunity to learn, to gather experience, to meet people at distant places, and to have to the unique possibility to contribute a small piece to this huge puzzle, to unravel some of natures fas-cinating mysteries. Opportunities, I certainly don’t take for granted and which I am truly thankful for. At the same time, I am grateful for all the support I received over the years. At no stage, this was a one-man-project and what follows is no obligation but true pleasure. First of all, I would like to thank Prof. Martin Dres-sel. I very much enjoyed my time at your institute and I am grateful for the trust you put in me. Not only re-garding the THz lab, but also when it came to presenting our work and representing our group at conferences all across Europe. You were always very open concerning the way I structured my research, and the emphases and collaborations I chose. Without doubt, this trust and independence was a vital motivation for my work. In sincerly thank Prof. Tilman Pfau and Prof. Guy Deutscher who kindly accepted to co-referee this work. I would like to thank Dr. Marc Scheffler, for being my supervisor for over five years. During this time, your guidance, shared knowledge, and support in so many re-gards were indispensable for my work. I learned a lot from all those discussions in our offices, scrawling all over the white boards, sometimes even getting somewhere and sometimes even unraveling something of importance (e.g. finding the reason for the superconducting dome in gran-ular Al on January, 30 th , 2015). 14 

Casting my experimental results into insightful phys-ics would not have been possible without the steady ex-change with theorists. In particular, I would like to thank Dr. Lara Benfatto. I very much liked our work on granular Al and the discussions in Grenoble, Geneva, Stuttgart, and Leiden. You have the truly wonderful gift to unwind theory such that experimentalists can work with it! Also, I thank Prof. Assa Auerbach for our il-luminating exchange on the Higgs mode and for proof-reading the corresponding parts of this thesis, and Dr. Yakov Fominov for all the detailed explanations, sup-plementary math on the Green’s functions and Usadel equation, and critically reading Sec. 1.4 and 1.5 of this work. Special thanks go out to Dr. Nimrod Bachar, who dragged me into the granular Al field. It’s been a plea-sure working with you in the lab, chasing ghosts, wrap-ping our minds around theory, writing papers, and let-ting thoughts run freely over a beer or two. I hope you stay open minded and keep your happy-go-lucky atti-tude! I also thank Dr. Boris Gorshunov and Dr. Artem Pronin for the steady hands-on support regarding the technical issues of the THz machine. Although, some-times, hands off the table would’ve been the better choice - what should happen? It’s just high voltage - but never mind :) Over the years, I received support from numerous colleagues from all over the world, always open-minded, uncomplicated, and helpful. Thanks to Prof. Nandini Trivedi, Prof. Aviad Frydman, Dr. Jernej Mravlje, Prof. Peter Wölfle, Dr. Eli Farber, Prof. Guy Deutscher, Dr. Sangita Bose, Prof. Pratap Raychaudhuri, Dr. Ed-uard Driessen, Prof. Antonio Garcia-Garcia, Dr. Elena Zhukova, Prof. Peter Armitage, Prof. Dirk Manske, Prof. Christoph Strunk, Dr. Kostya Illin, Dr. Ina Schneider, Prof. Michael Siegel, Dr. Tatjana Baturina, Prof. Yuji Matsuda, Prof. Takasada Shibauchi, Dr. Flo-rence Levy-Bertrand, Tomohiro Ishii, Dr. Marta Autore, Dr. Marie-Aude Measson, and Dr. Daniel Sherman. I thank Gabi Untereiner for 4-point contacting chal-lenging samples, cutting substrates, the steady supply of all sorts of lab consumables, and (also important) nu-merous early-morning chats. Then, I would like to thank my faithful PhD compan-ions Dr. David Neubauer, Dr. Eric Heintze, Dr. Con-rad Clauss, Markus Thiemann, and Dr. Ralph Hübner. Needless to say, without your company my time here 

would have been much less pleasurable. I guess it will be the time spent on the balcony, near the coffee machine, in the basement, and the Palast that, in retrospect, will constitute this ’great time when we did our PhD’. Similarly, I should thank my first-semester colleagues Dr. Dennis Dast, Dr. Christoph Tresp, Dr. Matthias Schmitt, Dr. Daniel Haag and Dr. Roland Bek for all those fantastic years between lectures, the CIP pool, and the Palmenhof . I also thank my non-physics friends for teaming up against the - apparently omnipresent - chal-lenges of a PhD: Dr. Steffen Heinz, Dr. Marcel Günter, Dr. Ayse Julius, and Dr. Wolfgang Merkle. I thank my students MSc. Lena Daschke, MSc. Ju-lian Simmendinger, MSc. Subash Panthi, MSc. Sanu Mishra, MEd. Karsten Paulokat, BSc. Julian Uhl, and BSc. Jonathan Gusko for contributing singular aspects to the big picture and helping me to keep the lab running! I also thank the Studienstiftung des deutschen Volkes for a three-year scholarship providing not only the finan-cial prerequisite for my PhD studies, but also insights to state-of-the-art social, educational, and political research and valuable contacts to industry. Finally and most important, I thank you, Ines, for everything you did for me and for us. For not being in-terested in broken symmetry, Cooper pairs, and all this stuff, for being a point of rest, for always being there, listening, caring, laughing, loving. Contents 

Abstract 5Acknowledgments 13 1 Field-theoretical basics on superconductivity 19 

1.1 A preliminary outline . . . . . . . . . . . 20 1.2 Spontaneous U (1) symmetry breaking . . 21 1.3 Field theory approach to neutral and charged superfluids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 1.4 A low-energy Lagrangian for superconduc-tivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 1.5 Green functions and the Usadel equation . 32 1.6 Density of states and dynamical conduc-tivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 

2 Experimental studies on disordered NbN thin films 39 

2.1 The superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition . . . . . . . . . 40 2.1.1 The insulating side: scaling theory of conductivity . . . . . . . . . . . 40 2.1.2 The superconducting side: Ander-son theorem . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 2.1.3 The quantum-critical regime . . . 44 2.2 A brief review of tunneling studies on the SIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 2.3 Measurements of the dynamical conductivity . . . . . . . . . . 49 2.4 The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass . . . 58 2.5 Some concluding remarks on the Higgs mode in disordered systems . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 

3 Experimental studies on granular Al thin films 75 

3.1 Some considerations on nano-scale super-conductivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 3.1.1 The number-phase uncertainty . . 76 3.1.2 The shell effect . . . . . . . . . . . 77 3.2 Superconductivity in granular aluminum . 80 3.2.1 The phenomenology . . . . . . . . 80 3.2.2 The broader context: superconducting domes and energy scales . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 18 

3.3 Measurements of the transport and dy-namical conductivity . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 3.3.1 Resistive transition and paracon-ductivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 3.3.2 The dynamical conductivity and su-perconducting energy scales . . . . 87 3.4 Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence . . . . . . . . . . . . 94 3.4.1 Shaping the superconducting dome 94 3.4.2 The pseudogap for phase-driven superconductivity . . . . . . . . . 95 3.4.3 Multi-fractal wave functions - an alternative to enhancing Tc? . . . . 101 3.5 Goldstone modes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 3.6 The effect of magnetic sub-gap bands? . . 113 3.7 Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 

4 Experimental studies on the Heavy Fermion metal CeCoIn 5 119 

4.1 A walk-through introduction to CeCoIn 5 . 120 4.1.1 Metallic and Kondo regimes . . . . 120 4.1.2 Heavy-Fermion state and quantum criticality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122 4.1.3 A brief review of optical studies on CeCoIn 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124 4.2 Interludium I: Optics on correlated systems126 4.3 Measurements of the transport and dy-namical conductivity . . . . . . . . . . . . 129 4.4 Interludium II FL, non-FL, and hidden FL . . . . . . . . 134 4.5 CeCoIn 5 - a hidden Fermi Liquid . . . . . 138 4.6 Scaling behavior of the effective mass . . . 145 4.7 Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 151 

A Experiment and Analysis 155 

A.1 Sample preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155 A.1.1 NbN thin films . . . . . . . . . . . 155 A.1.2 Granular Al . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155 A.1.3 CeCoIn 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156 A.2 Frequency-domain THz spectroscopy . . . 159 A.3 Analysis of the complex transmission data 163 A.4 Measurement protocols and low-T charac-teristics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168 1. 

# Field-theoretical basics on superconductivity  

> Vor hundert Jahren ging es los, It has started one hundered years ago, like a revolution, destination and direction unknown, everything old was burnt to the ground. Es war wie eine Revolution. Ziel und Richtung unbekannt, Alles Alte wurde niedergebrannt.
> Die Toten Hosen

Starting with general considerations quantum field theo-ries (QFT) and spontaneous symmetry breaking therein in Sec. 1.1 and 1.2, we will motivate a field-theoretical de-scription of electrically neutral and charged superfluids in Sec. 1.3 akin to the early ideas of Ginzburg and Landau. Using the language of QFT we will set up model obeying global U (1) gauge symmetry, whose breaking leads to the physics of superfluids. Turning to charged superfluids, we will promote the global U (1) symmetry to a local one and examine the consequences of a symmetry-breaking super-conducting ground state and associated collective excita-tions of the order parameter field. Subsequently, we will make step-by-step simplifications testing our QFT aiming for a low-energy model reproducing some of the most cru-cial properties of superconductors: how gradients of the phase field lead to currents, how the topology of the order parameter explains dissipation free dc-transport, and how the Higgs mechanism at play in a superconductors turns photons massive leading to the Meissner-Ochsenfeld ef-fect. In Sec. 1.5, we will introduce a Green’s-function formalism to calculate experimentally accessible prop-erties of superconductors. This will be done on basis of the Usadel equation allowing for pair-breaking beyond the canonical Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory. We will discuss how to solve the equation and how to obtain the quasiparticle density-of-states and the dynamical conduc-tivity in Sec. 1.6. 20 

# 1.1 A preliminary outline 

Before we consider symmetry breaking in gauge theories and mainly the construction and study of Lagrangians in greater detail, we will sketch how these steps are part of the entire route that eventually leads to a particu-lar physical theory for superconductivity. We will do this for bosonic superconductors. The justification for this lies in the observation that granular and disordered superconductors can often be described in terms of effec-tively bosonic theories, that is neglecting the composite character of Cooper pairs. The entire procedure follows a six-point plan: 1. Decide, which energies, interactions, conservation laws the eventual theory should properly account for. 2. Based on that, write down 1 the Lagrangian L in 1 This is very sim-ilar to assembling the Hamiltonian in quantum mechanics. 

terms of bosonic 2 fields ψ(x), where x = ( t, x) de-     

> 2The Cooper pairs are understood as excitations of this field.

notes a point in space-time. 3. Quantize the fields by mode expansion in creation and annihilation operators 

ˆψ(x) = 1(2 π) 32

ˆ dp

√Ep

(ˆapeipx + ˆ a†

> p

e−ipx ) (1.1) and postulate commutator relations. 4. Infer the normalized generating functional Z0[J] = 

Z[J]/Z [0] by calculating the path integral (here omitting the hat-symbol 3)3 As bosonic fields commute, we can simplify the calcu-lations by treating the operator values fields ˆψ as classical Heisenberg fields. This is not possible for anti-commuting fermionic fields where one has to resort to Grassman-nian fields. 

Z[J] = 

ˆ

Dψe i2     

> ´d4xL[ψ(x)]+i ´d4x Jψ (x)

(1.2) where Dψ integrates over all possible field config-urations and J(x) is a auxiliary source function. 5. Infer the Greens functions G by differentiating Z[J]

with respect to J.6. Use G to calculate the desired physical properties 4.  

> 4e.g. the density of states or the dynam-ical conductivity.

We will focus on the first two and and last step, while some calculations are simplified and motivated with the Spontaneous U (1) symmetry breaking 21 

intermediate ones at the back of our minds. The field-theoretical approach to superconductivity we will sketchily review in this first Chapter is based on the excellent introduction to quantum field theory by Lancaster and Blundell [1]. 

# 1.2 Spontaneous U (1) symmetry break-ing 

Symmetry is the property of a physical object to not change itself under a symmetry transformation. The ob-jects we will encounter and study regarding their sym-metry retaining or breaking properties are ground-state or vacuum expectation values (VEV) of quantum fields 5 5 i.e. something we will later on identify as the superconduct-ing order parameter. 

quantum fields and Lagrangians. The study of symmetry behavior turns out to be a versatile approach to describe numerous physical systems using one and the same con-cept despite their seeming difference. In greater detail, we will consider continuous symmetries, that is the sym-metry transformation is characterized by a variable with continuous spectrum of real values that allows a smooth transformation between initial and final states 6. Accord- 6 In contrast to e.g. the discrete mir-ror, parity or time-reversal symmetries. 

ing to the Noether theorem, any continuous symmetry of the Lagrangian implies the existence of a conserved physical property 7. Here, we will focus on the trans- 7 For instance, the isotropy of time and space leads to the conservation of en-ergy and momen-tum, respectively. 

formations that can be represented by the elements of the unitary group U (1) . These transformations can be thought of rotating an object, e.g. a (quantum) field 

ψ(x), in the complex plane by an angle α such that 

ψ → eiα ψ. (1.3) If the object under consideration remains unchanged it is said to preserve (or, otherwise, break) global U (1) sym-metry as we apply the same change at all space-times. Physically speaking 8, global U (1) invariance implies the 8 An example is the theory of elec-tromagnetism which is U (1) invariant and conserves the elec-tric charge q. More exotic charges, e.g. color, require global symmetries beyond  

> U(1) .

conservation of charge. Symmetry considerations and the demand for certain conservation laws are important guides to define a (quantum) field theory (QFT) for a given system, that is, casting the essential interactions and energies into the Lagrangian The global symmetry is promoted to a local one, if the U (1) transformation may be different for each space-22 

time point, 

ψ → eiα (x)ψ, (1.4) leaving the transformed object invariant. In general, the demand for local U (1) invariance imposes stronger con-strictions to a QFT than its global version, and we will see below, that it requires gauge fields to guarantee the invariance 9. In a sense, we can think of the gauge field as 9 Accordingly, theo-ries that are locally       

> U(N)invariant are called gauge theo-ries.

a device that repairs the damage caused by the U (1) op-eration in order to preserve symmetry at each space-time point x accordingly. A more physical role of the gauge field is to mediate the interaction between the particle excitations of the quantum fields carrying the charge re-lated to the global symmetry 10 . This offers an enlighten-10 Note that local al-ways implies global ,but not vice versa. ing new perspective: if we want the particles to interact by exchange of gauge bosons, then we have to set up the Lagrangian such that it has a local symmetry. Be-fore we come to the consequences of promoting global to local symmetries, we will examine what happens, when global U (1) symmetry is spontaneously 11 broken. 11 Symmetry break-ing is spontaneous, if broken and un-broken phases are connected smoothly. This has to be con-trasted with explic-itly broken symme-tries such as the handedness of chiral molecules. 

We will start with the Lagrangian the problem of super-fluidity in a gas of neutral bosons. Owing to their vanish-ing charge, we can neglect electromagnetic interactions and the coupling to external electromagnetic fields. The Lagrangian is of the form kinetic energy minus potential energy and reads 12 12 In what follows, we use the standard notation          

> ∂μ= ( ∂t,∇)
> and
> ∂μ= ( ∂t,−∇ )T.
> Consequently,
> ∂μ∂μ=∂2=∂2
> t−∇ 2.

L = ∂μψ†∂μψ − V (ψ, ψ †). (1.5) We expressed L in terms of classical bosonic Heisenberg fields ψ(x) rather than operator-valued fields ˆψ(x) of a proper quantum-field description - a simplification ow-ing to the commuting algebra of bosonic operators. To get a handle on the potential V , we assume only small variations of the system around its minimum so that we can express V (ψ, ψ †) in a power series 

V = γ2ψψ † + 12 λ(ψψ †)2 (1.6) where λ > 0. This general form fulfills the symmetry requirement, V (ψ) = V (−ψ), and it provides a stable minimum for |ψ, ψ †| → ∞ . Assembling kinetic and po-tential energies we obtain a scalar complex field theory 

L = ∂μψ†∂μψ − γ2ψψ † − 12 λ(ψψ †)2 (1.7) Field theory approach to neutral and charged superfluids 23 

with a self-interaction term governed by the coupling      

> Figure 1.1: Potential energy with symmet-ric (top) and broken-symmetry (bottom) ground states. U(1)
> operations can be vi-sualized as rotations around the Vaxis.

constant λ. For a positive mass term μ2 > 0 the po-tential has a unique minimum at ψ = 0 . For γ2 < 0 the potential acquires a Mexican-hat shape, see Fig. 1.1, and an infinite number of degenerate minima on a circle with radius r. We can easily check the global U (1) invariance by transforming the fields according to Eq. (1.3). The phase factors are not affected by the derivatives and can-cel when multiplied with their complex-conjugates. Note that this holds true irrespective of the sign of the mass term. The symmetry of L can be captured by the polar representation ψ = √ρ(x)e iϑ(x) with a real longitudi-nal scalar field ρ and a real angular scalar field ϑ. The ground state of the QFT is found upon minimizing the potential energy. For γ2 > 0 the system resides in the unique minimum at the origin, so that the vacuum ex-pectation value (VEV) of ρ takes the value ⟨ρ⟩ = 0 at every point in space-time. Just as L itself, the VEV is 

U (1) invariant. For μ2 < 0, the ground state has to spontaneously pick a particular minimum on the circle of minima, e.g. the one with ⟨ϑ⟩ = ϑ0. Once this has happened, the symmetry is broken: a global U (1) trans-formation shifts the angular field from one VEV ϑ0 to another one ϑ0 + α. In the next section, we will study the consequences of this spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) in a superfluid. 

# 1.3 Field theory approach to neu-tral and charged superfluids 

In condensed matter physics, we are usually in the non-relativistic limit where the mass energy mc 2 is by far the biggest energy scale. In the time evolution, we can factor out this fast oscillation by re-defining 13 the field 13 We use natural units in which h = 

> c= 1

ψ = 1√2m Ψe imt . Inserting this form in Eq. (1.7) and performing the derivatives gives 

L = 12m ∂tΨ†∂tΨ + iΨ †∂tΨ − 12m ∇Ψ†∇Ψ

−(γ2 − m2)Ψ †Ψ − λ

2

(Ψ†Ψ)2 . (1.8) 24 

Expressing Ψ as above in terms of polar coordinates, Eq. (1.8) is rewritten to 

L = 12m

( (∂tρ)2

4ρ + ( ∂tϑ)2ρ

)

+ i

2 ∂tρ − ρ∂ tϑ

− 12m

( (∇ˆρ)2

4ρ + ρ(∇ϑ)2

)

− μρ − λ

2 ρ2 (1.9) where we have defined μ = γ2 − m2. This result can be simplified. First we note that we explicitly separated out the rapid oscillations and, thus, we can consider the re-maining time dependence as weak. Thus, with the huge 

1/m prefactor, the first term in Eq. (1.8) can be ne-glected 14 . Furthermore, also the bare time derivative of 14 Even the typi-cally large energy scales in condensed matter such as the Fermi energy are still ∼ 10 5 times smaller than the electron rest mass. 

ρ can be omitted, as it does not affect the particle dynam-ics 15 . The Lagrangian we obtained is unstable towards        

> 15 This can be un-derstood when look-ing at the action
> S=
> ˆ
> dx
> ˆ
> dtL
> where ∂tρturns out to be irrelevant for the physics as the fields vanish for
> |x| → ∞ .

symmetry breaking: For μ2 < 0 we have a Mexican-hat potential with infinite number of minima along a circle with radius ⟨ρ⟩ = μ2/λ ≡ n. For simplicity, we chose the minimum with ⟨ϑ⟩ = 0 . In order to study the excitations of the fields from their mimimal values we make a coordinate transform to the minimum defining 

√ρeiϑ → (√n + h)e iϑ with a new longitudinal field h.Up to bilinear terms and neglecting constant terms and the total time derivative ∂tϑ, we arrive at a field theory for superfluids reading 

L = − 12m (∇h)2 − 2λnh 2 − (2 √n∂ tϑ)h − n

2m (∇ϑ)2 + ... 

(1.10) The real scalar field h describes spin-zero bosons with mass √2λn forming the superfluid (e.g. 4He atoms). From the QFT point of view, these bosons are finite-energy longitudinal modes above the ground state. This is reflected in the non-zero mass term of Eq. (1.10). The excitations of the scalar field ϑ are Goldstone modes 16 in 16 The Goldstone mode of the su-perfluid is the zero-sound mode. Another (approx-imate) solid-state Goldstone mode are magnons, i.e. collec-tive spin-excitations with vanishingly small energy at long wavelengths. 

angular direction not leaving the ground state manifold. Consequently, these modes should be excited at zero en-ergy and, indeed, there is no term in Eq. (1.10) propor-tional to ϑ2 - the modes are massless. Here we can state another important finding: The Goldstone-mode term is proportional to n being the radius of the ground-state circle. If the ground state does not break U (1) symme-try, then this manifold is a singular point at n = 0 and the Goldstone mode disappears. Turning this argument Field theory approach to neutral and charged superfluids 25 

around captures the essence of the Goldstone theorem: Breaking a continuous global U (1) symmetry leads to the emergence of massless excitations. A superconducting condensate is a superfluid of electrons that are bound to bosonic pairs via an essentially electro-magnetic interaction 17 mediated by photons. We include 17 In fact, the interaction must not necessarily be electromagnetic: quarks carrying a color charge may (at least in theory) form color-superconducting pairs through the exchange of gluons, i.e. via a strong-force interaction. 

photons by gauging the QFT of the superfluid making it invariant under local U (1) transformations. This is done in two steps. First, we take Eq. (1.7) and add the Lagrangian 

L′ = − 14 (∂μAν − ∂μAν )( ∂μAν − ∂μAν ) (1.11) describing the dynamics of the photon vector field Aμ =(A0, A). Second, we include the interaction between Aμ

and the superconducting charge field ψ via minimal cou-pling by replacing the derivatives by covariant deriva-tives 18 18 reading ∂t → ∂t +    

> iqA 0and ∇ → ∇ +
> iq Awhen expanded.

∂μ → Dμ = ∂μ + i qA μ (1.12) where the coupling strength between electrons and pho-tons is given by the charge q. The full Lagrangian we obtain is 

L = (∂μ − iqA μ)ψ†(∂μ − iqA μ)ψ − γ2ψψ † − 12 λ(ψψ †)2

− 14 (∂μAν − ∂μAν )( ∂μAν − ∂μAν )= Dμψ†Dμψ − γ2ψψ † − 12 λ(ψψ †)2 − 14 Fμν Fμν 

(1.13) where we have introduced the electromagnetic field ten-sor Fμν = ∂μAν −∂μAν . This field theory is invariant un-der local U (1) transformation, Eq. (1.4), if we demand 19 19 That this is ameaningful transfor-mation is due to the              

> freedom of gauge :If we put the such-transformed field A′
> μ
> into L′,the terms with ∂μαadd up to zero and leave the physics unaffected.

the field Aμ to transform as 

Aμ → A′ 

> μ

= Aμ − 1

q ∂μα. (1.14) We can always find a scalar field α such that it guarantees gauge invariance and keeps the form of the resulting field equations 20 . We can now resort to our result obtained 20 via the Euler-Lagrange equation 

for the neutral superfluid in Eq. (1.9), where we again neglect the bilinear derivative, replace the derivations by 26 

covariant ones and add L′

L = iΨ †(∂t + iqA 0)Ψ − 12m (∇ − iq A)Ψ †(∇ + iq A)Ψ 

−μΨ†Ψ − λ

2

(Ψ†Ψ)2 − 14 Fμν Fμν . (1.15) Here, the field Ψ can again be expressed in scalar lon-gitudinal and angular fields, ρ and ϑ. When expand-ing the derivatives, we encounter terms proportional to 

A0 + 1 

> q

∂tϑ and A + 1 

> q

∇ϑ. We use the freedom of gauge according to Eq. (1.14) and define a new field Cμ =

Aμ + 1 

> q

∂μϑ. Expansion leads to 21 21 Note that we have chosen the mass term for the ρ            

> field to be negative (giving apositive sign thereof in Eq. (1.16)). This means, that we will have abroken-symmetry ground state.

L = i2 ∂tρ − qρC 0 − 12m

( (∇ρ)2

4ρ + q2ρC2

)

+μρ − λ

2 ρ2 − 14 Fμν Fμν . (1.16) The total time derivative can again be neglected. As in the superfluid, we modify the longitudinal field by a small perturbation from the ground state replacing √ρ(x) →√n + h(x). After some simplifications 22 we obtain the 22 i.e. omitting con-stant terms, neglect-ing interaction terms that are cubic (or higher) in the fields, and treating the per-turbation h as much smaller than √n .

Lagrangian for superconductors reading 

L = − 12m (∇h)2 −2q√nC 0h−2μh 2 − q2n

2m C2 − 14 Fμν Fμν .

(1.17) If we compare this result to Eq. (1.10), we see that the Goldstone mode of the superfluid has disappeared. At the same time, the field Cμ has acquired a mass √q2n/ 2m. The initially 23 massless gauge field Aμ is said 23 Note that before symmetry breaking there was no bilinear term in Aμ.

to have absorbed the Goldstone mode to become mas-sive when we gauged the theory going from Eq. (1.15) to Eq. (1.16). This is the heart of the Higgs mechanism : the freedom of gauge is used to let the angular component ϑ

of Ψ disappear giving mass to the photon field Aμ. It is to be noted that the same mechanism works - up to mathe-matical subtleties - identically for non-abelian gauge the-ories such as the electroweak unification of Abdus and Salam: The role of ψ is played by the four-component Higgs field and we replace the simple U (1) symmetry by the more complex SU (2) × U (1) . Here, partial 24 symme-24 that is, most of the symmetry is bro-ken, while a small subgroup of symme-try remains intact. 

try breaking of the Higgs-field’s VEV and the vanishing angular modes give rise to massive W ± and Z0 gauge bosons for the weak force while the photon (belonging to A low-energy Lagrangian for superconductivity 27 

the unbroken subgroup) for electromagnetism remains massless. The transversal degrees of freedom (related to the unbroken subgroup) of the Higgs field are massive excitations, the celebrated Higgs bosons 25 . Though our 25 While the elec-troweak unification explains how gauge bosons may become massive, the other particles of the Stan-dard Model acquire their masses by cou-pling their fields to the Higgs field. 

treatment of the charged U (1) superfluid in 3+1D in-cludes a stunning realization of the Higgs mechanism in solid state physics, it does not herald a new massive exci-tation mode . Under special circumstances, however, this may change: In the context of, e.g., superconductivity in quantum-critical NbN, see Chapter 2, we will reexamine some of the above considerations and see that there is a massive Higgs mode in the charged O(2) superfluid in 2+1D in the relativistic limit. In the next part, we will derive some of the fundamental and well-known properties of superconductors from our field theoretical approach. 

# 1.4 A low-energy Lagrangian for superconductivity 

To pull some superconducting phenomenology from our so-far Lagrangian we need to simplify Eq. (1.17). This can be done using a mathematical trick known as inte-grating out the energetic field h. We do this following the road map we set out at the beginning of this chapter and insert L back into the action 26 S and the generating 26 which is simply the space-time inte-gral S = ´ d4xL.

functional ZZ =

˚

DC DC0 Dh e i2 S[C,C 0,h ]

=

˚

DC DC0 Dh exp 

[ i2

ˆ

d4x(− 12m (∇h)2

−2q√nC 0h − 2μh 2 − q2n

2m C2 − 14 Fμν Fμν ]

(1.18) where the path (functional) integral measure D[... ] in-tegrates the functional S over all configurations of the respective fields it depends on - just as the ordinary inte-gral measure dx integrates a function f (x) over all values 

x. While the mathematical handling of path integrals is often complicated, a tedious calculation shows that once a Lagrangian can be cast into a Gaussian integral, the 28 

path integral can be solved exactly 27 . Thus, we consider 27 In short, this calculation relies on the solvable Gaus-sian integral 

ˆ

dxe− a 

> 2x2+bx

which evaluates to √2π/a eb2/2a. For any bi-quadratic La-grangian 

L = ΦTK(x)Φ

+2 bT(x)Φ,

where Φ and b

are N -component vectors and K is asymmetric N × N

matrix, the path integral 

ˆ

DΦ e i2  

> ´d4xL[Φ]

takes values 

e− i2  

> ´d4xbTK−1b

× (2 πi) N

√det K

.

the part of the action just containing h and find after partial integration 

S[h] =

ˆ

d4x

[

− 12m (∇h)2 − 2q√nC 0h − 2μh 2]

= − 12m

[

h∇h

]∞−∞ 

+

ˆ

d4x

[ 12m h∇2h − 2q√nC 0h − 2μh 2]

=

ˆ

d4x

[

h

( 12m ∇2 − 2μ

)

h − 2q√nC 0h

]

(1.19) where we demanded the field h to vanish for |x| → ∞ .Inserting this action back in Eq. (1.18) and splitting S =

S[h] + S[C, C 0] gives 

Z =

¨

DC DC0

ˆ

Dh

exp 

( i2

ˆ

d4x

{

h[ 12m ∇2 − 2μ]h − 2q√nC 0h

})

×exp 

(

− i2

ˆ

d4x

{ q2n

2m C2 + 14 Fμν Fμν })

.

(1.20) Assigning K → 12m ∇2 − 2μ and b → − q√nC 0 according to above scheme, we obtain after integration 

Z = 2πi

√det A

¨

DC DC0

exp 

(

− i2

ˆ

d4x q √nC 0

1 

> 12m

∇2 − 2μ q√nC 0

)

×exp 

(

− i2

ˆ

d4x

{ q2n

2m C2 + 14 Fμν Fμν })

(1.21) with the Lagrangian 

L = q2n

2μ C20 − q2n

2m C2 − 14 Fμν Fμν (1.22) A low-energy Lagrangian for superconductivity 29 

where we have neglected 12m ∇2 against 2μ. In the same fashion we can also integrate-out the C0 field so that we eventually end up with the low-energy Lagrangian only containing the vector potential C and higher-order derivatives thereof 

L = − q2n

2m C2 + derivatives . (1.23) With this simple Lagrangian we can now turn to some real-life implications. In more detail, we are interested how the fundamental properties of superconductors can be deduced from the field theory we have constructed. 

Currents 

In general, the current is obtained by performing a func-tional derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to the gauge field, i.e. we calculate 

j = δL

δC . (1.24) To account for the freedom of gauge, we unwind the gauge we performed in Eq. (1.16) setting C → C − 1 

> q

∇ϑ

and obtain 

L = − q2n

2m C2 − n

2m (∇ϑ)2 + qn m C∇ϑ. (1.25) Performing the functional derivative 28 yields 28 Alternatively, one can also derive with respect to ∇ϑ to obtain the particle current, which after multiplication with the charge q is the electrical current. 

j = qn m (∇ϑ − qC) (1.26) which is the London equation. The current in a super-conductor can arise from coupling to a gauge field (i.e. upon light irradiation) or as result of a phase gradient of the superconducting order parameter. A close examina-tion of the second mechanism explains the dissipation-free nature of transport as we will see in the next para-graph. 

Dissipation-free transport 

We can understand the vanishing transport resistance of a superconductor as a consequence of the finite vacuum expectation value of the order parameter Ψ and its topol-30 

ogy [1]. Remember, that in the superconducting state, we can write the order parameter as Ψ = √neiϑ = const .

throughout the system. We can think of the condensate to life inside a box of dimension L × L × L where we im-pose periodic boundary conditions. In, e.g., x-direction, this implies that Ψ( x = 0) = Ψ( x = L). A current in 

x-direction is induced if we supply the charge carriers in this direction with momentum p, that is, by apply-ing a Lorentz-boost transformation Ψ → eipx Ψ. At the boundaries, we therefore obtain Ψ( x = 0) = e ipL Ψ( L)

and thus √neiϑ = √nei( ϑ+pL ). In other words, as we walk along the condensate in x-direction, the current im-poses a twist t(x) = px to the ground state phase ϑ that must fulfill pL = 2 πk with k = 1 , 2, 3, ... to ensure peri-odic boundary conditions. A phase gradient, as shown above, always leads to a current. Demanding the carrier flow to slow down on the way from x = 0 to x = L, i.e. to be resistive, is equal to demanding the phase gradient to be zero. This, how-ever, is problematic as the current itself necessitates a phase twist of least 2π between x = 0 and L as shown above. The only way to achieve ∇ϑ = 0 is by a rupture of the condensate which is energetically extremely costly and thus unlikely 29 to happen: the current just keeps on 29 The probability can be estimated by the width of the zero-frequency      

> δ-function of the dynamical conduc-tivity σ1(ω)we will deal with later on.

flowing. The creation of vortices, being topological local defects in the phase field, may remove the phase twist and vortex movement can dissipate current. 

Meissner-Ochsenfeld effect 

We have seen that after symmetry is broken, the vector gauge field Aν has acquired a mass term. The relevant part of the full Lagrangian Eq. (1.17) reads 30 30 remember that     

> Fμν =∂μAν−∂μAν

LA = − 14 (∂μAν − ∂ν Aμ) ( ∂μAν − ∂ν Aμ) − q2n

2m Aν Aν .

(1.27) We can find the dynamics of this field by applying the Euler-Lagrange equation 

∂μ

∂L

∂(∂μAν ) − ∂L

∂A ν

= 0 (1.28) A low-energy Lagrangian for superconductivity 31 

resulting in the differential equation of motion or Proca 

equation 

− 14 ∂μ (∂μAν − ∂ν Aμ) + q2n

2m Aν = 0 (1.29) which can be cast 31 into 31 By usage of the Lorenz gauge  

> ∂μAμ= 0

(

∂μ∂μ − 2q2nm

)

Aν = 0 . (1.30) In the static limit, ∂0A0 = 0 we can concentrate on the space-like components and rewrite this result using the gradient operator 

∇2A = 2q2nm A (1.31) which is solved by an exponentially decaying vector po-tential measured from the boundary of the superconduc-tor and the very essence of the Meissner-Ochsenfeld ef-fect 32 . In analogy with the massive W ± and Z0 bosons 32 To make a closer contact to the usual notion of the Meissner-Ochsenfeld effect, one can rewrite the left side of Eq. (1.31) using the identity ∇2A =       

> ∇(∇A)−∇ × ∇× A,the Lorenz gauge, and Eq. (1.26) lead-ing to ∇2A∝B.

of the short-range weak interaction, it is often said the photons (i.e. the quanta of the field Aν ) can penetrate the superconductor only on very short distances as they rapidly decay by virtue of their mass they acquire in the interior of the superconductor [1]. 32 

# 1.5 Green functions and the Us-adel equation 

Once the Green functions of a given system are known, basically any physical quantity may be derived from them. For any practical application, the exact form of the Green functions must be determined by solving equations which contain the systems characteristics and account for ap-propriate boundary conditions. The most fundamental equation for the case of superconductivity was first de-rived 33 by Gor’kov [3, 4]. The Gor’kov equation, how-33 Other than Bardeen, Cooper, and Schrieffer, who started with asecond-quantization approach to su-perconductivity, Gor’kov worked with quantum field theoretical Green function techniques - a formalism very popular among Rus-sian theorists at this time - and solved the problem almost at the same time. Though credit usu-ally is given to BCS, major advances in our understanding of superconductivity are based on the work of Gor’kov [2]. 

ever, is too complicated to be used for practical appli-cations. Eilenberger simplified the Gor’kov equation for the case ∆ ≪ EF (or equivalently ξ ≫ λF ), where the highly oscillatory dynamics ∼ exp( iE F t/ ℏ) can be re-moved from the equations and taking (quasi-classically) averaged Greens functions [5]. The resulting Eilenberger equations were simplified even more by Usadel [6] when applied to systems in the dirty limit where electron trans-port is of rather diffusive than ballistic nature. Here, pairing takes place between electrons traveling on dif-fusive rather than ballistic trajectories so that, loosely speaking, the constitutes of an Cooper pair are expected to scatter multiple times before losing phase coherence [7]. The particles momentum therefore may be aver-aged over all directions rendering the problem essentially isotropic. The obtained Usadel equation for the super-conducting matrix Greens function ˇg reads 34 [8, 9, 10]         

> 34 What follows is mainly taken from Ref. [8]. For a better understanding, how-ever, some of the cal-culations of Ref. [8] are carried out in greater detail here.

iE [ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˇg] − ∆[ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˇg] + i[̂ Σ, ˇg] = 0 (1.32) where [·, ·] is a commutator, τi and σi are the Pauli ma-trices of the 2 × 2 Nambu- and spin-spaces 35 N and S,               

> 35 Note that ˆτi
> and ˆσiare defined on different Hilbert spaces, the tenso-rial product ˆτi⊗ˆσj
> thus is a 4x4 matrix on the product space
> N⊗S.

and ∆ is the pairing energy. The term [̂ Σ, ˆg] is a self-energy term to renormalize the spectrum due to, e.g., paramagnetic-impurity or spin-orbit scattering, where time-reversal symmetry is not preserved. Still, this for-malism can be applied to strong potential scattering off non-magnetic impurities, where the Anderson theorem breaks down, although potential scattering is fully time-reversal symmetric [7]. The equivalence of strong po-tential scattering and the (paramagnetic) pair-breaking parameter is established in a two step procedure: First, potential disorder is linked to fluctuations of the pairing Green functions and the Usadel equation 33 

field ∆( r) [11] and second these fluctuations are related to an effective pair-breaking parameter [12]. The Usadel equation is formally solved by the matrix Green function 

ˇg =

(ˆgR ˆgK

0 ˆgA

)

(1.33) that comprises different types of Green functions, i.e. the retarded (R), advanced (A) and Keldysh (K) Greens functions, which can be transformed into each other 

ˆgR = ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0G + ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F (1.34) 

ˆgA = −ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0 ˆgR† ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0 (1.35) 

ˆgK = (ˆgR − ˆgA) × tanh( E/ 2kBT ) (1.36) and eventually expressed in terms of the normal (quasi-particle) and the anomalous (pair) Green functions, G

and F . These functions are one-particle propagators of the type ⟨ψ2ψ†

> 1

⟩ or ⟨ψ†

> 2

ψ1⟩ for G and ⟨ψ2ψ1⟩ or ⟨ψ†

> 2

ψ†

> 1

⟩

for F . We see, that the normal propagator describes creation (annihilation) and subsequent annihilation (cre-ation) of a particle (hole) and gives non-zero contribu-tions in any case, whereas the anomalous propagator describes the creation (annihilation) of two particles or holes which can only be non-zero in the case of pairing, i.e. the superconducting state. Despite the complicated structure of the full matrix Green function, it is effec-tively just two kinds of Green functions, G and F , that carry the physical information. The retarded Green function obeys the normalization constraint ˆgR ˆgR = ˆ τ0 ⊗ ˆσ0 = 1 . Expressing ˆgR in terms of G and F yields 

ˆτ0 ⊗ ˆσ0 = ˆgR ˆgR

= ˆτ 20 ⊗ ˆσ20 G2 + ˆ τ 20 ⊗ ˆσ20 F 2

+(ˆ τ3 ˆτ1) ⊗ ˆσ20 F G + (ˆ τ1 ˆτ3) ⊗ ˆσ20 GF 

= ˆτ0 ⊗ ˆσ0G2 + ˆ τ0 ⊗ ˆσ0F 2

+iˆτ2 ⊗ ˆσ0F G − iˆτ2 ⊗ ˆσ0GF 

= ˆτ0 ⊗ ˆσ0(G2 + F 2) (1.37) from which the common parametrization G = cos( θ) and 

F = sin( θ) follows. The angle θ(E, ∆) is a complex function termed proximity angle. The whole problem of finding a set of Green functions solving the Usadel 34 

equation is transferred to the determination of the func-tion θ(E, ∆) . Once θ(E, ∆) is found, all superconducting properties (such as the density of quasi-particle or pair states, the coherence functions, the current density, or the dynamical conductivity) can be calculated following standard procedures. The Usadel equation (1.32) may now be simplified drastically. With the Green functions 

G and F defined above, the quasiparticle commutator becomes 

iE [ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˆg] = iE [ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0G]+iE [ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˆτ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F ]= iE ((ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0)(ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F )

−(ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F )(ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0))

= iE (ˆ τ3 ˆτ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F − ˆτ1 ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0F )= −2E(ˆ τ2 ⊗ ˆσ0F )= −2E(ˆ τ2 ⊗ ˆσ0 sin θ) (1.38) and the pair commutator gives in similar fashion 

∆[ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˆg] = −2i∆(ˆ τ2 ⊗ ˆσ0G)= −2i∆(ˆ τ2 ⊗ ˆσ0 cos θ). (1.39) The self-energy upon strong potential or spin-flip scat-tering (with scattering time τs and ξ a dimensionless parameter describing the ’strength’ of a single magnetic impurity) is ̂

Σs = i

2τs

1ˆτ0 ⊗ ˆσ0 + ξ2 ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0 ˇgˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0 ˇg ˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0 ˇgˆτ3 ⊗ ˆσ0.

(1.40) The entire calculation of the the self-energy term in Eq. (1.32) is lengthy, but straight forward 36 . Here, we will 36 The central ma-nipulations rely on the series expansion             

> 11−ˆM= 1 −ˆM+ ˆM2−...
> where ˆMis a matrix in N⊗Sspace.

just state the result 

i[̂ Σ, ˇg] = − iτs

ˆτ2 ⊗ ˆσ0

sin 2 θ

1 + ξ4 + 2 ξ2 cos 2 θ . (1.41) We are now equipped to rephrase the Usadel equation (1.32) in terms of the complex proximity angle θ(E) us-ing the commutators. Note, that all commutators have the identical N ⊗ S structure, so that each component Green functions and the Usadel equation 35 

Figure 1.2: Complex solutions of Usadel equation for various pair-breaking values τs. Purely real and complex solutions correspond to a vanishing and finite quasiparticle density-of-states (DOS), respectively. With increasing pair-breaking scattering τs, the energy window with purely real solutions shrinks leading to a reduction of the band edge Ωg despite a constant pairing amplitude 

∆. Note that only the branch with Im( u) > 0 yields a physically meaningful dynamical conductivity. 

of the actual 4 × 4 matrix equation (1.32) reads 

iE sin θ + ∆ cos θ − 12τs

sin 2 θ

1 + ξ4 + 2 ξ2 cos 2 θ = 0 . (1.42) This version of the Usadel equation is solvable for θ, how-ever, any solving procedure suffers from the periodicity of trigonometric functions and hence is numerically cum-bersome. A more straight representation of Eq. (1.42) is found using renormalized energy and order parameter, 

˜E = E + i

2τs

cos θ

1 + ξ4 + 2 ξ2 cos 2 θ (1.43) 

˜∆ = ∆ − 12τs

sin θ

1 + ξ4 + 2 ξ2 cos 2 θ (1.44) so that Eq. (1.42) becomes 

i ˜E sin θ + ˜∆ cos θ = 0 . (1.45) The normal and anomalous Greens functions G = cos θ

and F = sin θ can now be parametrized in terms of a 36 

renormalized paramater u = ˜E/ ˜∆,

G = u

√u2 − 1 (1.46) 

F = i

√u2 − 1 (1.47) which is readily obtained by solving 

u

1 + 1(1 + ξ2)2τs∆

√1 − u2

u2 −

∣∣∣ 1−ξ2

> 1+ ξ2

∣∣∣2

 − E

∆ = 0 . (1.48) Finding a solution u of Eq. (1.48) is simpler than di-rectly solving Eq. (1.42), but still some care must be taken in order to filter the correct physical solution from the mathematical solutions. The solutions to Eq. (1.48) as function of E are plotted in Fig. 1.2 for various pair breaking parameters τs∆ = 1 .4 − 55 , while ∆ = 3 .7 and 

ξ = 10 −4 are kept constant. Common to all sets of so-lutions for a given τs is that there are energy regimes, where the solutions are either purely real or complex. While all real solutions are unique, this does not hold for complex ones: Fig. 1.2 displays how the solution set splits into two branches (colored black and blue) once a τs-specific energy is reached. Though being general solutions, only the ones with Im( u) > 0 lead to physi-cally meaningful Green functions in the given context as discussed in the next paragraph. 

# 1.6 Density of states and dynam-ical conductivity 

On general grounds, the quasiparticle density of states 

D is defined as 

D ≡ 18 tr ((ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0)[ˆ gR − ˆgA]) (1.49) We can use the above expressions (1.35) and (1.34) to formulate D in terms of G and F in order to express Density of states and dynamical conductivity 37 

Eq. (1.50) in terms of the proximity angle 

8D = tr {(ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0)[ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0G + ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F

+ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0G† − ˆτ1 ⊗ ˆσ0F †]}

= tr {(ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0)[ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ02Re G + ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ02iIm F ]}

= tr {ˆτ 23 ⊗ ˆσ20 2Re G + ˆ τ3 ˆτ1 ⊗ ˆσ02iIm F }

= tr {ˆτ0 ⊗ ˆσ02Re G + ( −i)ˆ τ2 ⊗ ˆσ02iIm F }

= 8Re G

D = Re (cos θ) (1.50) In the second last step we have taken the partial trace over the spin space ( 4Re G) and multiplied with the par-tial space over the Nambu space (2). The second term vanished due to the traceless Pauli matrix ˆτ2. Appar-ently, the quasiparticle DOS is simply the real part of the normal Green function. Similarly, on finds the den-sity of pairs, P, as the imaginary part of the anomalous Green function upon replacing ˆτ3 by ˆτ1 in the calcula-tion leading to Eq. (1.50). Both play a crucial role in the 

Figure 1.3: Quasiparticle density of states for var-ious pair-breaking values τs. Although the order pa-rameter ∆ is constant for each curve, the band edge Ωg

decreases considerably below the BCS value Ωg = 2∆ 

with increasing pair-breaking strength. At the same time, the coherence peaks are smeared out. For the strongest pair-breaking ( τs∆ = 1 .4) the coherence peaks are barely present and the spectral gap is with 0.04 × 2∆ almost closed. 38 

dynamical conductivity. The quasiparticle DOS for var-ious pair-breaking parameters τs is shown in Fig. 1.3. In the BCS limit ( τs∆ = 10 3) the well-known sharp band edge at Ωg = ∆ and pronounced coherence peaks are recovered. For moderate pair-breaking, τs∆ = 54 , the peaks are rounded off and Ωg shifts slightly below ∆,and consequently, reduces the spectral gap below the BCS value 2∆ . Further increase of pair breaking progres-sively smears out the peaks and relocates states below ∆.At extreme pair-breaking, τs∆ = 1 .4, the spectral gap is almost completely closed and the coherence peaks are smeared entirely into the quasiparticle continuum. In this limit, the dynamical conductivity is strongly modi-fied compared to the BCS case, as we will see below. The response kernel Q(ω), that links the supercurrent to the electromagnetic vector potential reads [8] 

Q(ω) = − iσ 0

8

> ∞

ˆ

> −∞

dE tr [(ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ1)ˇ g(E)(ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0)ˇ g(E − ℏω)] 

(1.51) from which the conductivity follows directly as ˆσ(ω) = 

iQ/ω . After expressing the matrix Green function ˇg in terms of the normal and anomalous ones and taking the traces over Nambu- and spin spaces we arrive at 

ˆσ(ω) = πe 2ns

m δ(ω)

− σ0

2ω

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dE

{

tanh E − ℏω

> 2

2kBT

[G+G− 

> 1

− iF +F −

> 2

]

− tanh E + ℏω

> 2

2kBT

[(G−)∗G+1 + i(F −)∗F +2

]}

(1.52) where we understand subscripts 1 and 2 to denote real and imaginary parts and used the short-hand notation 

{G, F }± = {G, F }(E ± ℏω/ 2) . Note also that we in-cluded the delta-response of the superfluid manually. 2. 

# Experimental studies on dis-ordered NbN thin films 

> Now, what do you own the world? How do you own disorder, disorder? Somewhere between the sacred silence and sleep Disorder, disorder, disorder
> System of a Down

Content of this chapter are optical studies on NbN thin films on approach of the superconductor-insulator quan-tum phase transition (SIT) providing experimental evi-dence for the existence of the Higgs mode. We will start our discussion in Sec. 2.1 with some theoretical consider-ations regarding superconductivity and disorder followed by a review of hallmark tunneling-spectroscopy studies on homogeneously disordered SIT materials in Sec. 2.2. Subsequently in Sec. 2.3, we will discuss measurements of the dynamical conductivity of a series of NbN films covering the range from clean to strongly disordered and compare the results with measurements of the (differ-ential) tunneling conductance. We will see that the mu-tual analysis within a model inspired by the paramagnetic pair-breaking theory of Abrikosov and Gor’kov reveals a discrepancy between both spectroscopies that cannot be explained by pair-breaking effects only but rather calls for for radically new ideas. Given the specific nature of short coherence-length quasi-2D NbN near quantum criticality we will in Sec. 2.4 present an explanation involving a ex-citation of the superconducting order parameter namely the Higgs mode - an condensed-matter realization of what is known as Higgs boson in particle physics yet sharing the same origin: spontaneous symmetry breaking. We will discuss experimental results justifying this interpre-tation, yet also open questions concerning the visibility of the Higgs mode in disordered systems, Sec. 2.5. 40 

# 2.1 The superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition 

A prototypical quantum phase transition in condensed matter is the transition between superconducting and insulating ground states of an electronic system at zero temperature in two spatial dimensions (2D). This super-conductor - insulator transition (SIT) can be tuned by various parameters, most importantly lattice impurities acting as source for weak localization effects or poten-tial traps strongly localizing charge carriers. The special appeal of the SIT and associated phenomena lies in its intermediate position framed by two of the most funda-mental paradigms of condensed matter physics, namely the Anderson theorem for superconductivity and the An-derson localization each of which breaks down at the SIT giving rise to intriguing physics vivified by the interplay of localization and condensation. In what follows, we will briefly examine both paradigms and qualitatively intro-duce the two fundamental scenarios possibly leading to the cease of superconductivity at the quantum critical point 37 .37 For an com-prehensive review of this topic the interested reader is referred to the reviews of Gantmakher and Dolgopolov [13] and Lin, Nelson and Goldman [14]. Also, the textbook by Do-brosavljevic, Trivedi, and Valles [15] pro-vides a valuable collection of articles introducing theo-retical approaches and experimental hallmarks. 

2.1.1 The insulating side: scaling theory of conductivity 

Maybe the most stunning aspect of the SIT in 2D lies in the direct transition between two ground states, which could not be any more different. On the one side, a co-herent many-body ground state composed of delocalized Cooper pairs (a superconductor) and, on the other side, a ground state with incoherent and localized quasiparti-cles (an insulator) presumably without an intermediate ground state of incoherent but delocalized quasiparticle states (a metal). To understand the absence of this in-termediate metallic state one can employ the single pa-rameter scaling argument [16] suggested by Abrahams, Anderson, Licciardello, and Ramakrishnan 38 which is an 38 also known as the  

> gang of four

elegant application of the renormalization-group ideas: Start with a cube of spatial dimension d = 1 , 2, 3 and side lengths L, then find expressions for the conductance, define a scaling function thereof and study the general implications by sending L → ∞ . For a metal in the The superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition 41 

high-conductivity ( σ) limit the conductance g is simply 

gm = σL d−2 (2.1) which is easily verified for the dimensions above. For insulators in the low-conductivity localization limit, one can expect a conductance which is exponentially damped on a characteristic length scale ξgi = gce−L/ξ . (2.2) While at intermediate regimes the particular form of g

surely depends on details of electron transport and in-cipient localization, we will see that the asymptotic lim-its Eqs. (2.1) and (2.2) are sufficient to understand the essential physics. For a renormalization treatment re-moving the explicit dependence on L, Abrahams et al. 

Figure 2.1: single-parameter-scaling function β of a d-dimensional cube Ld versus conductance interpolating be-tween logarithmic decay (insulating limit) and saturation (metallic limit) in 1,2, and 3 spatial dimensions. Arrows indicate the renormalization flow in the limit L → ∞ .For d = 1 and 2 any amount of disorder will always favor the insulating ground state over the metallic one, whereas for d = 3 the system has a metal-to-insulator transition at an repulsive fix point (green dot). 42 

suggested the scaling function 

β(g) ≡ d ln g

dln L . (2.3) Inserting the explicit expressions Eq. (2.1,2.2) gives the limits 

lim  

> g→∞

β(g) = d − 2, (2.4) 

lim  

> g→0

β(g) = ln 

( g(L)

gc

)

. (2.5) Figure 2.1 displays schematically β(g) for d =1,2, and 3 dimensions. In the insulating limit, all curves collapse ir-respective of dimensionality, while in the metallic limit, the asymptotes are different and only the 3d case fea-tures a zero-crossing at a critical conductance gc. Now we consider the renormalization flow upon coarse grain-ing, indicated by the arrows in Fig. 2.1. For small dis-order, we will obtain a conductance g0 > g c, and send-ing L → ∞ for d = 3 will increase the conductance as 

g = σL pushing the system towards the metallic limit, whereas for g0 < g c at high disorder the conductance will rather decrease dragging the system towards to insulat-ing regime. The system is said to flow away from the repulsive fix point at gc either towards metallic or insu-lating ground states depending on the specific disorder. This is the so-called metal-to-insulator quantum phase transition (MIT) at the mobility edge gc purely driven by disorder. In d = 1 and 2 the situation is distinctly different. Here, increasing L will leave the conductance unaffected g = σ (d = 2 ) or reduce it as g = σ/L (d = 1 ). The drag towards the insulator cannot be compensated by an attractive metallic limit so that even the smallest amount of disorder will unavoidably cause a flow towards the insulating ground state. In other words, in dimen-sions d < 3 no metallic ground state is possible at T = 0 .Note that the above reasoning does not rely on specific details of g(L). It can be shown, that quantum correc-tions to transport will affect the specific functional forms, but there is never a mobility edge in less than 3 spatial dimensions [16]. The superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition 43 

2.1.2 The superconducting side: Ander-son theorem 

Although superconductivity as ground state of electronic systems is limited to comparably low energy scales Tc ∼

10 K, its ubiquitous appearance as favorable ground state of numerous materials ranging from single crystals to amorphous films results from its insensitivity against dis-order. While the above scaling arguments rules out a 2d metal, this insensitivity can qualitatively be seen as reason for 2d superconductors - a celebrated result first obtained by Anderson [17] and commonly referred to as Anderson theorem. A comprehensive discussion of the Anderson theorem is lengthy and beyond the scope of this work. Instead, we will only sketch the succession of arguments leading to the conclusion 39 . 39 What follows is based on the more comprehen-sive discussion in Ref. [18]. The electron-phonon interaction term H of the BCS Hamil-tonian H0 for clean superconductors reads 40 40 with the usual no-tion of fermionic cre-ation and annihila-tion operators ˆc†, ˆc 

> and a constant inter-action potential V

H = V ∑

> k

ˆc† 

> k↑

ˆc†−k↓ ˆc−k′↓ ˆck′↑ (2.6) pairing states with opposite momenta and spin, i.e. (k, ↑)

and (−k, ↓). The BCS mean-field approximation diag-onalizes this Hamiltonian and leads to the well-known energy spectrum Ek = √(ϵk − μ)2 + |∆|2 with ϵk and μ

the band dispersion and chemical potential and the BCS self-consistency equation 

∆ = V N (0) 

ˆ

dξ ∆2√(ξ − μ)2 + |∆|2 . (2.7) In disordered systems, the lattice translational symme-try is lifted and scattering off impurities violates con-servation of momentum such that k is no longer a good quantum number and Cooper pairs do no longer result from the above pairing scheme. Anderson showed, that the BCS condition for pairing can be generalized beyond 

|k, ↑⟩ and | − k, ↓⟩ to exact eigenstates |α⟩ of the disor-dered Hamiltonian H′ and their time-reversed counter-parts ˆT |α⟩ yet restoring the energy spectrum and self-consistency equation above. Starting point is the general 44 

electron-phonon interaction operator 

H = V ∑

> k,k′,q

∑

> σ,σ ′

ˆc† 

> k′+q,σ ′

ˆc† 

> k−q,σ

ˆck,σ ˆck′,σ ′ . (2.8) Transformation 41 of the k-space operators to real-space 41 via the Fourier in-tegral   

> ˆck,σ =
> ˆ
> drˆψ(r)eikr

operators ˆψ(r), subsequent integration, and spin sum-mation yields 

H = 2 V

ˆ

dr ˆψ†↑(r) ˆψ†↓(r) ˆψ↓(r) ˆψ↑(r). (2.9) In general, the orbitals ˆψ(r) will be complicated func-tions of r for a randomly disordered lattice. For the sake of the argument, however, the actual form is not re-quired given the existence of a set of eigenstates |α⟩ (and corresponding orbitals ˆϕα(r)) diagonalizing the Hamil-tonian for the disordered problem. Transformation into this new basis 42 , the Hamiltonian Eq. (2.9) can be cast 42 via the spectral representation   

> ˆψσ(r) = ∑
> α
> ˆϕα(r)ˆ cα,σ

into the BCS mean-field form with the only difference that the operators create and annihilate (time-reversed) eigenstates |α⟩ instead of momentum eigenstates |k⟩. Af-ter diagonalization and Bogoliubov transformation 43 one 43 that is, introduc-ing new fermionic operators creating and annihilating quasiparticles (in-stead of electrons) which allow to transform the com-plicated 4-operator term in Eq. (2.8) into a harmonic oscillator. 

finds a similar spectrum Eα = √(ϵα − μ)2 + |∆|2 which still contains information about the specific choice of eigenstates in terms of the eigenvalues ϵα. To obtain the self-consistency equation, however, any reference to the basis is lost when the summation over eigenvalues ϵα

is replaced by an continuous integral so that the BCS result Eq. (2.7) is exactly restored. Consequently, dis-order has no impact on the superconducting properties. In other words, if impurity scattering were to destroy a Cooper pair it would need to lift the requirement of time-reversal symmetry. Scattering off an potential, however, preserves the spin orientation and hence no pair-braking takes place, as long as the scatterer does not carry a magnetic moment: in this case, time-reversal symmetry is broken and superconductivity may be strongly sup-pressed [19, 20, 21]. 

2.1.3 The quantum-critical regime 

The Anderson theorem and the Anderson localization sketched above determine the physics far from the SIT at moderate and extreme amounts of disorder, respec-The superconductor-insulator quantum phase transition 45 

tively. As both asymptotic regimes are continuously con-nected, there must be a regime of disorder, where both paradigms break down and where, pictorially speaking, electrons cannot decide whether to pair up and condense or to get localized. How can we escape Anderson’s theorem? The important assumption Anderson made was that the orbitals ˆϕα(r)

of the disordered system are extended in space. Only then the mean-field approximation in accordance with BCS works. Clearly, spatial extension and localization tendencies antagonize compromising the prerequisites of Anderson’s theorem. An important measure to put a number on disorder is the Ioffe-Regel parameter kF ℓ, i.e. the product of the Fermi wave vector kF and the electron mean free path ℓ. For marginal disorder, kF ℓ ≫ 1 and the Anderson theorem holds, while for extreme disor-der 44 kF ℓ ≈ 1 and the system turns insulating signaling 44 In this case, elec-trons scatter from  

> each lattice site, i.e. the mean free path is the lattice constant.

the ultimate break down of Anderson’s theorem. While this explains the conceptual demand for an SIT, it does not provide an answer to the question how superconduc-tivity actually ceases. Over the past years, two models have been put forward by theory, the so-called fermionic and the bosonic scenarios we will now briefly discuss. 

The amplitude-driven or fermionic SIT 

In a seminal work [22] Finkelstein has shown that dis-order tends to renormalize Coulomb interaction between electrons such that the screening becomes less efficient: the attractive Cooper interaction pairing up electrons is challenged by the repulsive Coulomb interacting lower-ing the energy gain upon condensation. At a critical disorder, Coulomb repulsion is strong enough to over-compensate the pairing interaction and the bound state is no longer favorable. Using a diagrammatic renormal-ization approach, Finkelstein demonstrated that the am-plitude of the order parameter vanishes uniformly at the SIT yet. At the same time, also the superfluid density and -stiffness go to zero where the latter always remains the greater energy scale, see Fig. 2.2. The insulating side contains fermionic quasiparticles which in 2D im-mediately localize forming a hard insulator whereas in 3D tend the insulating behavior may be weaker accord-ing to the scaling of conductivity discussed above. The fermionic scenario has been successfully applied to ex-46 

Figure 2.2: Energy scales at the SIT within the fermionic (left) and the bosonic (right) scenario for the SIT. In the first case, pairing amplitude and superfluid density (or stiffness) go to zero at the QCP for critical disorder gc and the insulator contains localized fermions. In the bosonic scenario, the SIT is marked by a loss of superfluid coherence while pairing remains robust into the Cooper-pair (or Bose-) insulator. 

plain the suppression of Tc in homogeneously disordered ultra-thin films of, e.g., amorphous MoGe [23] or poly-crystalline TiN [24] and MoC [25, 26]. At the same time - and not unsurprisingly - it fails to properly describe experimental results in the very vicinity of the SIT as it neglects quantum fluctuations relevant at low energies. 

The phase-driven or bosonic SIT 

In the bosonic scenario global coherence necessary to form a phase-locked macroscopic superfluid condensate is lost at the SIT, see Fig. 2.2. In more detail, Fisher 

et al. have shown in a pioneering work [27] that long-range phase fluctuations among a charged (2 e) bosonic superfluid are enhanced in approach of the SIT reduc-ing the superfluid stiffness and finally destroying super-conductivity. As a natural consequence, the bosonic model allows pairs to survive into the insulating side, where they, however, have lost a global phase coherence and become localized. This model features an intriguing charge-vortex duality which predicts a universal resis-tance Rc = h/ 4e2 right at the SIT. Indeed, early dc-transport studies [28] of ultra-thin a−Bi films quench condensed on Ge reveal a SIT at the predicted universal resistance. Later on the prediction was found at odds with other systems, e.g. ultra-thin MoGe films: Al-though magneto-transport measurements confirmed the A brief review of tunneling studies on the SIT 47 

localization trend of Cooper pairs at the field-induced SIT, the importance of phase fluctuations and long-range Coulomb interaction [29], the obtained critical resistance seems sample-dependent and is scattered widely around 

h/ 4e2. The discrepancy is commonly attributed to the missing fermionic degrees of freedom which naturally arises treating the Cooper pairs as hard-core charge-2 e

bosons without internal fermionic structure. The limited applicability of both models calls for a uni-fied amplitude-phase theory equally capturing Coulomb interactions and phase fluctuations each of which are the central aspects of the respective models. At the time of writing this thesis, such a theory is yet to be developed. In the next section we will discuss some of the hall-mark experiments elucidating the SIT to conceptually outline what a successful theoretical treatment would have to account for. 

# 2.2 A brief review of tunneling studies on the SIT 

We will restrict our discussion to SIT systems relevant for the scope of this thesis, namely TiN and NbN. These materials can be produced in various ways as thin film with a homogeneous amorphous or polycrystalline struc-ture and random distribution of atomic-scale disorder. The distance to the SIT can be tuned either by compo-sition (i.e. varying N concentration) or thickness. The arguably most striking result was obtained by measure-ments of the local tunneling conductance. Far from crit-icality, the energy gap ∆ is uniform in space as expected for ordinary s-wave superconductors. This changes dras-tically in approach of the SIT where - despite struc-tural homogeneity - measurements reveal a strongly in-homogeneous superconducting state. For TiN, Sacepe 

et al. resolved a spatially fluctuating energy gap ∆ [24] while for NbN inhomogeneities are identified by varia-tions of the coherence-peak height and zero-bias anoma-lies [30]. In both cases, the emergent superconduct-ing domains exist on length scales comparable to a few times the superconducting coherence length of ∼ 10 nm, i.e. much larger than the atomic-scale disorder poten-48 

tial traps. The emergent electronic inhomogeneity tends to localize the Cooper pairs into weakly coupled super-conducting puddles. The global superconducting phase, which, in the clean case, acquires its lock to a constant value by virtue of perfect delocalization, is subject to increasingly strong fluctuations, as decomposition into weakly coupled puddles increases. The long-range phase coherence is eventually destroyed when the charging en-ergy 45 of the puddles by far exceeds the Josephson en-45 which can be thought of the en-ergy to be paid for hopping from puddle to puddle. 

ergy 46 . This peculiar inhomogeneity of the supercon-    

> 46 which is a mea-sure for the energy pay off due to hop-ping.

ducting state is in perfect agreement with calculations within the Bogoliubov de-Gennes model [31, 32] and fa-vors the bosonic scenario of the SIT. This view is strength-ened by tracing the energy towards the SIT. Comparison of Tc and tunneling gap ∆ revealed a less strong decay of the latter towards criticality leaving an anomalously large gap for films where Tc was almost zero [24]. The evolution of both quantities suggests ∆ to survive across the SIT forming a gapped Bose insulator. Similar mea-surements using planar junctions and disordered 2D InO films [33] compared nominally insulating and supercon-ducting film in the very vicinity of the SIT characterized by dc-transport down to mK temperatures. Surprisingly, both the insulating and superconducting tunneling spec-tra display a clear gap with almost the same amplitude. The coherence peaks, however, only appear for the latter which was viewed as evidence for robust pairing without global phase coherence in agreement with the bosonic models. In a subsequent publication [34] the insulat-ing gap was conceptually explained by partial screen-ing of electronic interactions due to the nearby metallic tunneling electrode pushing the sample back on the su-perconducting side to explain an alleged mismatch with optical THz measurements. This argument, however, is questioned by a screening length much smaller than the tunneling barrier. Furthermore, if the electrode ef-fectively pushes an insulating sample superconducting, also the coherence peaks should reappear what is, how-ever, not the case.Another consequence of strong phase fluctuations manifests at the transition to the normal state. Tunneling studies [35, 30] revealed a pseudogap in the density of states surviving up to several times 

Tc. The gap, however, is not flanked by coherence peaks reminiscent of the superconducting gap. Their absence Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 49 

is understood as result of the vanishing superconduct-ing order, while pair correlations remain present. In this sense, upon cooling preformed Cooper pairs exist at temperatures much higher than Tc but form a glob-ally coherent condensate only below Tc. While soon af-ter this discovery, the analogy to the pseudogap in un-conventional high-temperature superconductors such as the cuprates has been stressed, the comparison is deli-cate as the driving forces - disorder and correlation - are not quite the same. For instance, a recent study [36] assembles experimental evidence that the pseudogap in various cuprates is not restricted to the regime of the phase diagram where phase fluctuations delimit super-conductivity (e.g. Bi-2201 or LSCO) but also appears (in case of e.g. Bi-2201) above amplitude-driven tran-sitions 47 . Although tunneling studies arguably yielded 47 This paradig-matic view of the Tc−dome in unconventional superconductors emerging from an amplitude-phase crossover suggested by Emery and Kivel-son [37] is, however, challenged by the overwhelmingly complex supercon-ductivity in these compounds. 

the most valuable insights how energy scales behave to-wards criticality, the above mentioned discrepancy with optical measurements in the THz frequency range is trou-bling. The situation is even more alarming as also sys-tematic studies [38, 39] bringing together resonant mi-crowave and tunneling measurements on disordered TiN and NbTiN point towards the insufficiency of theories purely relying on the effects of pair-breaking. In what follows, we present comprehensive measurements of the dynamical conductivity at THz frequencies and compare them to tunneling measurements and discuss a reason-able solution to the above problem on basis of a new kind of excitation invisible to tunneling spectroscopy. 

# 2.3 Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 

We now turn to the optical spectroscopy measurements performed on superconducting NbN thin films in ap-praoch of the SIT. We performed comprehensive mea-surements of the complex transmission amplitude in the frequency range ν = 2 − 40 cm −1 (i.e. energies E = hν =0.25 −5 meV), which is well suited to study the dynamics of (strong-coupling) superconducting NbN films 48 with 48 Information on sample growth and -characteristics are found in Sec. A.1.1 

critical temperatures ranging between Tc = 15 − 3 K and an estimated spectral gap of 4.2kB Tc = 0 .9 − 5.4 meV. Measurements were performed in the normal state slightly 50 

above Tc and the regime of superconducting fluctuations and in the superconducting states well below Tc/2, where the mean-field BCS energy gap is at almost 100% of its zero-temperature value. The spectra of the transmission amplitude and phase were fitted to Fresnel equations via real and imaginary parts of the complex dielectric func-tion ˆϵ without any particular microscopic model for the charge dynamics 49 . The complex dynamical conductiv-49 See Sec. A.3 for more details of this so-called single-peak analysis. 

ity follows directly via ˆσ = 2 πiϵ 0ν(ˆ ϵ − 1) . Prior to the optical studies, similar NbN films with a thickness of 50nm have been fabricated as planar Ag/NbN tunneling junctions. Comprehensive measurements of the (differ-ential) tunneling conductance have been performed by M. Chand and the tunneling spectra displayed below are originally published in Ref. [40]. Before we discuss the experimental results, it is in-structive to clarify, how superconducting energy scales manifest in both the optical properties and the tunneling conductance G. At zero temperature, the charge current 

I between the electrodes through the tunneling barrier sets in as soon as the Fermi level of the Ag electrode is biased by a voltage |V | ≥ ∆/e . As a consequence of the diverging density of states right at ±∆, the slope of the conductance G = I/V is initially infinite before it saturates to the tunneling barriers inverse Ohmic re-sistance. The density of states which is proportional to the differential conductance dI/ dV displays a gap of the width 2∆ and thus provides a clean access to the su-perconducting pairing energy. While here, the ampli-tude of ∆ is measured by shifting chemical potentials, in optical spectroscopy it is probed by the quasiparti-cle excitations across the gap: At zero temperature, the finite-frequency response of a superconductor sets in at 

ν = 2∆ /h where quasiparticles are lifted cross the DOS gap which manifests as an onset in the real part of the dynamical conductivity ˆσ(ν) = σ1(ν) + i σ2(ν). While in the canonical BCS picture the onset of electromagnetic absorption at the spectral gap Ω equals the supercon-ducting energy gap 2∆ picture, additional excitations 50 50 provided that the excitation process is a scalar susceptibil-ity and couples to ˆσ

> linearly.

may open absorption channels at frequencies ν < 2∆ /h 

shifting Ω below 2∆ . Consequently, the combination of both transport and optical spectroscopic techniques is a promising route to identify excitations of the superfluid beyond ordinary quasiparticle breaking. Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 51   

> Figure 2.3: Sketch of the disorder-smeared density of states in-cluding sub-gap tail states. The dashed line is the BCS solu-tion. Note that the tail states are actu-ally much less signif-icant than displayed here.

The comparison is done according to the scheme de-scribed below. 1. Match an optical with a tunneling spectrum for NbN with (approximately 51 ) the identical Tc                         

> 51 Any NbN film produced as elec-trode within atunneling junction cannot be used for an optical mea-surement. The relation between the structural properties and the Tc, i.e. the reproducibility, is sufficiently high for the given growth procedure, such that the comparison of two NbN films linked by Tcis justified [41]

2. Fit the dI/dV spectrum: (a) Solve the Usadel equation (1.48) for a given pair breaking parameter τ (with ξ = 0 ) and coupling 52 c = 2∆ /k B Tc for energies |E| ≥ Eg       

> 52 The temperature dependence of ∆is assumed to be of BCS type

where 

Eg

∆( T ) =

[

1 −

( 1

τ ∆( T )

)2/3]3/2

(2.10) is the renormalized hard band gap [8] and T

is the temperature of the tunneling measure-ment. (b) Calculate the real part of the energy depen-dent normal Green function G(E), i.e. the density of states D(E) via Eq. (1.46). (c) Include - if required - additional sub-gap states 

Ntail (E)

Dtail (E) = exp 

[( Eg − E

Γ

)5/4]

(2.11) for |E| < E g where Γ measures the width of the tail accounting for local ∆ inhomogeneities due to random impurity configurations [11]. (d) Connect D(|E| ≥ Eg ) and Dtail (E < Eg )

smoothly by adjusting the relative weight to generate a continuous function ˜D(E), ∀E

(e) Calculate the functional form of dI/dV at fi-nite temperatures by convoluting ˜D(E) with the Fermi function f (E, T )

dI dV ∝ ddV 

> ∞

ˆ

> −∞

dE ˜D(E)(f (E + eV ) − f (E))

(2.12) 52 

where the integration range is chosen such, that the result does not change any more within standard numerical precision [42] (f) Adjust τ, c, and Γ and iterate (a-e) to find the optimal fit. 3. Use the obtained τ and c to solve the Usadel equa-tion for ∆( T ′) with T ′ the temperature of the op-tical measurement. 4. Calculate the complex normal and anomalous Green’s functions G(E) and F (E) via Eqs. (1.46,1.47) 5. Calculate the complex conductivity ˆσ(ν) via Eq. (1.52) Within the canonical BCS picture, the parameters re-quired to fit the tunneling measurement should also yield a proper description of the optical measurement 53 .53 At the writing of this thesis, we are not aware of a theory for the electromagnetic response including the tail states Ntail .Compared to Re G,however, the con-tribution of Ntail 

to the overall den sity of states is very small here so that negligence thereof will not affect ˆσ(ν)

substantially. 

Figure 2.4 compares measurements of the real part of the dynamical conductivity σ1(ν) + i σ2(ν) of a sample with Tc = 15 .14 K with a measurement of the differ-ential tunneling conductance dI/dV of a sample with 

Tc = 15 .6 K. While the tunneling measurement is per-formed at 1.9 K well below Tc, the displayed σ1(ν) spec-trum is taken at 12 K much closer to Tc. The reason is 10 15 20 25 30 35 2468                            

> -6 -4 -2 0246
> 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5
> 17 K
> 12 K
> BCS +pair breaking
> (b)
> 1
> (10
> 3 -1
> cm
> -1
> )
> Frequency (cm
> -1
> )
> NbN ,T
> c=15.14 K
> (a)
> NbN ,T
> c=15.6 K
> dI/ dV (
> -1
> )
> 1.9 K
> BCS +pair break ing +tail states
> Energy (m eV)

Figure 2.4: Optical and tunneling spectroscopy on clean NbN. (a) real part σ1(ν) of the dynamical conduc-tivity in the normal (17 K) and superconducting states (12 K). The arrow indicates the spectral gap estimated from the minimum of σ1(ν). (b) Differential tunneling conductance dI/dV as function energy at 1.9 K. Solid lines are based on Green’s functions calculated for the same pair breaking τ and ratio ∆/k B Tc. To fit the in-gap part of dI/dV , exponentially decaying tail states have been added, which are not taken into account for σ1.Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 53 

that the fully opened gap is located at frequencies above the experimentally accessible range, while the elevated temperature allows a direct read-out of Ω and hence comparison with 2∆ from the tunneling measurement. Though being in the clean limit, the coherence peaks in the dI/dV spectrum are smeared out substantially be-yond thermal broadening. The optimal fit is obtained for 

τ ∆0 = 25 .3 and a coupling of c = 2∆ 0/k B Tc = 4 .15 and a minor Ntail contribution. The corresponding predic-tion for σ1(ν) invoking the same τ and c is in very good agreement with the actual experimental result. The min-imum in σ1(ν) lies at ∼ 31 cm −1 (denoted with the blue arrow) which gives a coupling 2∆ 0/k B Tc = 4 .1 with the BCS temperature-dependence of ∆ [40]. A similar re-sult is found for another pair of clean-limit samples with 

Tc = 14 .3 K and 14.9 K for the optical and tunneling measurement, respectively, shown in Fig. 2.5. The min-imum in the predicted σ1(ν) curve is in good agreement with the onset of optical absorption beyond quasi parti-cle dynamics. At sub-gap frequencies, the experimental dispersion matches the predicted one, while above the spectral gap, the rise is stronger than expected. Compar-ing samples with Tc = 10 K and 9.5 K for the optical and tunneling measurement, respectively, reveals an absorp-tion threshold Ω that is shifted below the predicted one 

Figure 2.5: Optical and tunneling spectroscopy on clean NbN. (a) real part σ1(ν) of the dynamical con-ductivity in the normal (17 K) and superconducting state (11 K). The arrow indicates the spectral gap estimated from the minimum of σ1(ν). (b) Differential tunneling conductance dI/dV as function energy at 2.17 K. Solid lines are based on Green functions calculated for the same pair breaking τ and ratio ∆/k B Tc.54 

Figure 2.6: Optical and tunneling spectroscopy on moderately disordered NbN. Panels (a) show real part σ1(ν) of the dynamical conductivity in the normal and superconducting state. The arrows indicate the spec-tral gap estimated from the kink of σ1(ν). Panels (b) display the differential tunneling conductance dI/dV as function energy. Solid lines are based on Green func-tions calculated for the same pair breaking τ and ratio 

∆/k B Tc.

exceeding the range of experimental uncertainty, see the top panel of Fig. 2.6. While again for sub-gap frequencies the experimental dispersion agrees with the predicted form, an increasing excess absorption evolves around Ω

and at higher frequencies. Both the suppression of Ω with respect to 2∆ pre-Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 55 

Figure 2.7: Optical and tunneling spectroscopy on disordered NbN. Panels (a) show real part σ1(ν) of the dynamical conductivity in the normal and superconduct-ing state. The arrows indicate the spectral gap estimated from the kink of σ1(ν). Panels (b) display the differ-ential tunneling conductance dI/dV as function energy. Solid lines are based on Green functions calculated for the same pair breaking τ and ratio ∆/k B Tc.

dicted from the tunneling measurement and the accu-mulation of additional spectral weight beyond the quasi-particle absorption, become increasingly pronounced as 

Tc is reduced in approach of the SIT, as displayed in the 56 

mid and bottom panels of Fig. 2.6 and Fig. 2.7. Down to Tc = 7 .5 K the excess conductivity is concentrated around frequencies corresponding to 2∆ and becomes vanishingly small towards the low-frequency limit. As for the Tc = 6 .4 K, sample, the additional conductivity spans over the entire frequency range. The discrepancy between the anticipated and the actual σ1(ν) becomes increasingly worse as both functional form and absolute values are concerned when going to the lowest-Tc sam-ple, where σ1(ν) could meaningfully be calculated. As mentioned above, the above fits of the dI/dV 

spectra to quantify the pair breaking strength incorpo-rated exponential sub-gap tail states, which are not in-cluded in the Green’s functions G and F from which 

σ1(ν) was derived. Piecing together a continuous func-tion ˜D(E) from both the hard-gapped continuum contri-bution and the tail states to fit dI/dV is associated with a certain degree of freedom as finite temperatures also smear out a hard gap similar as tail states do. Conse-quently, the lack of tail states in the calculation of σ1(ν)

should carefully be examined in consideration of the pre-sented discrepancy. This can be done by inversion of the above analysis: σ1(ν) is fitted to find a suited pair break-ing strength, which thereupon is used to calculate a pre-diction for dI/dV . In Fig. 2.8(a) we exemplary re-plot 

Figure 2.8: Inverted analysis routine applied to a strongly disordered sample with Tc =4.2 (a) and 4.3 K (b). The pair breaking parameter is chosen such that it yields a fit of σ1(ν) at 2 K. This strong pair breaking fails to generate a satisfying description of dI/dV regarding both the coherence peaks and the width of the gap. Measurements of the dynamical conductivity 57 

Figure 2.9: Curves from Gaussian distributed lo-cal gaps ∆(r) applied to a strongly disordered sample with Tc = 4 .2 (a) and 4.3 K (b). The fit of the dI/dV 

measurement is the average of 81 D(E) curves calculated from a Gaussian distribution of ∆(r) values. The cor-responding average of σ1(ν) curves cannot reproduce the experimental result. 

the experimental results on the samples with Tc = 4 .2

and 4.3 K together with a fit of σ1(ν). The required pair-breaking is 10 times stronger than in the previous fit of dI/dV displayed in Fig. 2.7(c). Except for the low-est frequencies, this choice of pair breaking reproduces the experimental σ1(ν) very well. At the same time, however, it completely fails to yield a satisfying descrip-tion of dI/dV displayed in panel (b) regarding both the height and shape of the coherence peaks and the width of the gap. It is clear, that this discrepancy cannot be accounted for by the missing tail states which could only narrow the gap further, and consequently, the effect of tail states on σ1(ν) can be ruled out as origin of the ex-cess conductivity. What is the influence of an emergent electronic inhomo-geneity? The above dI/dV spectra are measured with planar tunneling junctions. Local tunneling measure-ments, however, revealed an emergent electronic inhomo-geneity on a length scale of the coherence length much greater than the lateral dimension of the planar junc-tions. In that sense, the smeared dI/dV spectra could also be modeled as an average of locally varying ∆(r) and thus D(E, r) curves. In fact, assuming a Gaussian distri-bution of ∆ values gives a fairly good approximation of the dI/dV spectrum, see Fig. 2.9, although after closer 58 

examination it falls short compared to the pair-breaking model. Employing the identical ∆(r) distribution for an averaged σ1(ν) curve yields a curve completely at odds with the actual measurement. Attributing the mismatch between dI/dV and σ1(ν) measurements can thus not be accounted for by a simple averaged response due to electronic inhomogeneity. The failure of both pair-breaking and an averaged re-sponse due to a distribution of ∆(r) values as possible un-derlying scenarios accounting for the apparent mismatch between optical and tunneling spectroscopy calls for an alternative effect at play. In the next section, we will see that three specific properties of NbN - the short coher-ence length of a few nanometer, the quasi-2D character and the vicinity to quantum criticality - make this ma-terial a promising candidate for a excitation best known from the Standard Model of particle physics serving as possible explanation for puzzling observation above. 

# 2.4 The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 

The striking resemblance of both the theory of the Higgs boson in high-energy physics and superconductivity gives rise to a natural question: is there a Higgs-boson like ex-citation in superconductors? Clearly, on the one hand an affirmative answer is challenged by half a century of uncountable spectroscopic measurements not revealing a superconducting Higgs mode. On the other hand, the successful and elegant treatment of superconducting phe-nomena by virtue of field theories and symmetry break-ing is a strong pleading for a Higgs mode. Hence, a more constructive approach is not to ask if but where there is a Higgs mode, and how it can be detected experimen-tally. In recent years, works of Auerbach et al. gave a particular clear account to these questions as we will review below. A instructive way to understand the elusive nature of the Higgs mode is to reconsider under which circum-stances the particle analogue appears. The well-defined Higgs boson appearance as a sharp resonance is predicted within a relativistic and bosonic broken-symmetry QFT. The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 59 

Although Cooper pairs as constituents of superconduct-ing condensate can be viewed as composite bosons, the fermionic nature of the underlying quasiparticles usu-ally plays an important role. Qualitatively, this can be seen as consequence of the pairing taking place in k-rather than real space. The coherence length ξ, as a mea-sure for the quasiparticle’s real-space distance, is for con-ventional superconductors usually much larger than the inter-atomic distance so that bosonic treatments are not applicable. While Bose-Einstein condensed (BEC) neu-tral superfluids contain tightly-bound pairs and bosonic theories apply, they do not require local U (1) invariance and gauge fields and thus the Higgs mechanism does not occur.             

> Figure 2.10: Phase diagram of lattice bosons within the Bose-Hubbard model. The tips of the lobes are points with emergent rel-ativistic dynamics. Adopted from Ref. [43]

.The search for a suited system with a Higgs mode therefore resorts to effectively bosonic charged superflu-ids, i.e. short coherence-length superconductors. Thin films of NbN are such candidates: For films of around 50 nm thickness, Hall- and magneto-resistance measure-ments [44] revealed a coherence length of ξ ∼ 5 nm, which is just around one order of magnitude larger than the lattice constant of NbN and much smaller than the pen-etration depth ∼ 200 nm rendering disordered NbN thin-films a prototypical short-coherence superconductor and ideal testbed for effectively bosonic theories. BEC-like pairs can be treated as lattice bosons within the Bose-Hubbard model (BHM) 

H = −J ∑

> i

(b† 

> i

bj + b† 

> j

bi) − μ ∑

> i

ni − U ∑

> i

ni(n1 − 1) 

(2.13) where b, b †, and n = b†b are bosonic annihilation, cre-ation, and number operators, J and U are hopping and onside-repulsion energies, and μ is the chemical poten-tial. The phase diagram of this model features insulating and superfluid phases depending on the filling (bosons per lattice site) and the kinetic energy, see Fig. 2.10. By means of a Hubbard-Stratonovich transformation the BHM Hamiltonian can be cast into a field theory with an imaginary-time action reading [45] 

SBHM =

ˆ

dτ ddxLB (2.14) 60 

with the Lagrangian 

LBHM = K0ψ†∂τ ψ +K1|∂τ ψ|2 +K2|∇ ψ|2 +r|ψ|2 +u|ψ|4

(2.15) which is identical with the one we discussed in Sec. 1.3. Clearly, (imaginary) time and space dependencies are not treated on equal footings. It is the linear-time deriva-tive in the first term that spoils relativistic dynamics 54 .54 The situa-tion is similar to non-relativistic (Schrödinger) single-particle quantum mechanics        

> (2 im∂ t−∂2r)ψ= 0
> compared to the rel-ativistic (Dirac) ver-sion
> (iγ μ∂μ−m)ψ= 0

In a seminal work [46], however, Fisher et al. have demonstrated that K0 can be related to r via K0 =

− ∂r ∂μ , and further, that K0 vanishes at the tips of the Mott lobes, see Fig. 2.10. Consequently, the Lagrangian becomes symmetric in space and time coordinates and henceforth describes relativistic bosons. The T = 0

superfluid-Mott insulator quantum phase transition (QPT) within the BHM has a prototypical condensed-matter re-alization in form of the superconductor-insulator quan-tum phase transition (SIT) observed in granular and dis-ordered superconductors such NbN. In recent years, the dynamics of the BHM in the rel-ativistic limit have been studied intensively by Auerbach 

et al. in terms of O(N ) field theories 55 with an action 55 Note that the description in terms of a the U (1) com-plex scalar model is here equivalent to the O(2) real vector model [47] 

[48] 

S[ϕ] = 

ˆ

dτ d2x

{ 12 (∂μϕ)2 + μ

2 |ϕ|2 + g|ϕ|4

}

(2.16) in 2+1 space-time where ϕ is an N −component real vec-tor. This model has turned out to be a powerful ap-proach to study dynamics and collective modes in quan-tum critical condensed matter systems, in particular the superfluid-Mott insulator transition [46] for N = 2 and Neel-singlet transition of dimerized Heisenberg antifer-romagnets [49] for N = 3 . We will now review some of the results [50, 51, 52, 43] obtained by Auerbach et al. 

relevant for this work. • Relativistic dynamics are essential for the appear-ance of a long-lived Higgs mode. In the (Gross-Pitaevskii) limit of non-relativistic dynamics, the collective excitations of the order parameter are coupled massless amplitude-phase phonons, wher-eas for the relativistic case the O(2) model predicts one massless phase mode and one massive ampli-tude (Higgs) mode. The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 61 

• The aforementioned visibility in the dynamical con-ductivity does not apply to conventional weak-coupling superconductors, where the BCS Hamiltonian com-mutes with the (Cooper-pair) current operator leav-ing the spectral gap essentially open. In the strong coupling limit, the coupling between charges and photons happens by gauging the theory as discussed in Sec. 1.3. Via minimal coupling the gauge field 

A is introduced and one obtains 

LO(2) [ϕ, A] = 12 (∂μϕ)2 − μ

2 |ϕ|2 + g|ϕ|4 + Lem [ϕ, A]

(2.17) where 56 56 Here, we parametrize the order parameter field ϕ as                     

> ϕ=
> (⟨ϕ⟩0+σπ
> )
> where σare the longitudinal fluctu-ations around the ground state ⟨ϕ⟩0
> and πis the phase field. Note, that a real two-component vector is equivalent to a complex scalar order parameter de-scription.

Lem = eA(∇π) {|⟨ ϕ⟩0|2 + 2 σ⟨ϕ⟩0 + ... } (2.18) contains the relevant electron-light interactions. Cur-rents are obtained by functional derivatives of Lem 

with respect to A. To lowest order, this yields two diagrams: a phase mode e∇π and a coupled phase-amplitude mode 2e∇πσ .• The visibility of the Higgs mode is closely related to the symmetry of the probe. The longitudinal susceptibility of the O(N ) field theory in two spa-tial dimensions diverges at low energies so that the spectral signature of the Higgs mode is washed out into a broad shoulder. However, any scalar suscep-tibility probing the square of the order parameter rather than its direction, is finite at all frequencies and displays a peak right at the Higgs mass mH

(an energy scale) which manifests as the onset of electromagnetic absorption measured by the dissi-pative conductivity. • To understand the physical implications of the above phase-amplitude diagram, we recall the result of Sec. 1.4, i.e. gradients of the superconducting phase, 

∇π, generate currents and hence cause density fluc-tuations of the condensate. In 3+1 dimensions, these are massive plasmons with a threshold en-ergy given by plasma frequency ωp. In turn, while being a sharp resonance in 3+1 dimensions, the Higgs mass mH is shifted to energies ℏωp + mH

where the Higgs modes are completely overshad-owed by electronic interband excitations and ex-62 

perimental identification is a hopeless task. To the contrary, the plasmons are not gapped in 2+1 di-mensions due to the nature of Coulomb interaction and can be excited at arbitrarily low energies. The excitation threshold for the conductivity is here de-termined 57 by mH . With ξ ∼ 5 and d ∼ 20 nm, the 57 Incorporation of higher-order diagrams shows, that the threshold at      

> ℏω=mHis actually a soft gap closing as
> ω5in leading order suppressed further by a tiny numerical prefactor.

NbN films under study are, strictly speaking, not in the actual 2+1 limit, but with ξ and d being of the same order, the dimensional crossover is close such that traces of 2+1 physics are likely to be ob-served. In conclusion, the short-coherence superconductor NbN allows an effective bosonic treatment within the BHM model (and related field theories) and together with the emergent relativistic dynamics in approach of a quan-tum phase transition is a natural candidate to search for the Higgs mode in a solid-state system. Furthermore, being a scalar susceptibility, the optical conductivity is expected to display an onset of finite σ1(ν) (for T = 0 ) or a minimum (for T > 0) at mH and therefore is a suited probe for the Higgs mode. Coming back to the experimental results, we can as-semble characteristic features of the σ1(ν) spectra as function of Tc. We start with the energy gap ∆ ob-tained from tunneling and the spectral gap Ω being read out from σ1(ν), see Fig. 2.12(a). The tunneling gap ∆

is reduced following the strong-coupling BCS prediction indicated by the solid line with ∆/k B Tc = 2 .1 down to the lowest Tc ≈ 3 K. Starting with clean samples far from criticality, corresponding 58 spectral gap Ω/2 also follows 58 Note that the spectral gap for pair excitations lies at 

> Ω = 2∆ .

the BCS strong-coupling behavior down to Tc ≈ 9 K. Further approach of criticality then pushes Ω/2 below 

∆. This relative suppression becomes stronger as Tc goes down. At the lowest-Tc sample 59 the deviation amounts 59 Here, σ1(ν)    

> was measured by means of microwave Corbino spec-troscopy. Taken from Ref. [53].

to nearly one order of magnitude. This implies, that while tunneling spectroscopy probes the superconduct-ing energy gap ∆ for all distances from criticality, below a certain Tc, another energy scale appears in the opti-cal absorption spectrum. Far far from criticality, this additional scale is above ∆, so that Ω also measures ∆

(or rather 2∆ ). The reduction below the strong-coupling curve at around 9 K signals the appearance of a new en-ergy scale we interpret as the Higgs mass mH .The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 63 

Figure 2.11: Superconducting energy scales to-wards criticality Comparison between energy gap ∆ ob-tained from tunneling measurements and (half of) optical absorption threshold Ω/2 taken as the minimum in σ1(ν)

for NbN films approaching the SIT. In the clean limit (high Tc), both energy scales are approximately the same. While the decrease of ∆ follows Tc in agreement with the strong-coupling BCS reduction (black line), the reduction of Ω/2 speeds up towards criticality. The dashed line is a guide to the eye. 

The Higgs mode is a critical mode of the QCP meaning that mH vanishes as Tc → 0 at the SIT. Within a bosonic scenario of the SIT 60 , the reduction of mH below ∆ is 60 which seems likely to be realized in NbN, where superconductivity at small order parame-ters is governed by phase fluctuations [54, 55]. 

a natural consequence, as the pairing energy remains fi-nite across the transition. The increasing reduction of 

mH in approach of criticality is in qualitative agreement with the theoretical prediction of the O(2) model, where 

mH ∝ (δg )0.67 with δg being a dimensionless parameter measuring the distance to the QCP. How δg relates to 

Tc is not a priori clear, so that we can only qualitatively confirm the predicted decay, while affirmation of the ex-ponent remains an open problem. So far, we have considered only the real part of the com-plex conductivity. In what follows, we employ the in-64 

ductive response of the superfluid, σ2(ν), as a check for internal consistency of the above interpretation. For any system with a constant total carrier density ne,the spectral weight defined as 

s =

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dωσ 1(ω) = πn ee2

2m (2.19) is strictly conserved 61 as it follows from the fundamental 61 Given that the bandmass m        

> also remains con-stant which in first approxima-tion holds true for non-correlated metals.

Kramers-Kronig relations for causal response functions. The opening of the superconducting gap in σ1(ν) goes along with a redistribution of spectral weight such that the ’missing’ spectral weight at finite frequencies, i.e. the quasi particle contribution σ1,QP , is compensated by the zero-frequency δ-response, namely the superfluid contri-bution σ1,SF , thus 

ne = 2mπe 2

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dωσ 1,n (ω)= 2mπe 2

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dω 

{ e2πn s

m δ(ω) + σ0 × σ1,QP (ω)

}

= ns + 2mσ 0

πe 2

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dωσ 1,QP (ω) (2.20) where ns is the superfluid density, σ1,n the normal-state conductivity, and σ1,QP the normalized quasiparticle con-ductivity scaled with the normal-state dc-conductivity 

σ0. Equation (2.20) holds true for any system where the charge dynamics follows BCS theory. It further states that if σ0 is reduced σ0 → ασ 0 with |a| < 1, then both 

ne and ns are reduced by the same factor α. In turn, the appearance of superconducting excitations beyond BCS theory associated with finite-frequency spectral weight calls for a reduction of thereof in a disparate spectral range. For the Higgs mode, being a excitation of the su-perfluid condensate, a reduction of the superfluid spec-tral weight is most likely. Indeed, by quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) simulations of the disordered XY-model, Trivedi et al. have shown a direct correspondence be-tween the excess spectral weight arising from the Higgs mode and the reduction of the superfluid weight [56]. The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 65 

The superfluid dominates σ1(ν ≈ 0) ≈ δ(ν) in the zero-frequency limit and therefore, following Kramers-Kronig relations, also determines σ2 at small, but finite frequen-cies ν < 2∆ /h . Considering the Kramers-Kronig trans-form for the superfluid contribution 

σ2(ω ≈ 0) = − 2

π P

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dω′ωω′2 − ω2

πn se2δ(ω′)2m (2.21) one finds the relation 

ns = 2πm e2 νσ 2(ν)

∣∣∣ν=0 

(2.22) using ω = 2 πν and δ(ω) = 12π δ(ν). In practice, we multi-ply the measured σ2(ν) with frequency and extrapolate to ν → 0 to estimate ns. This procedure is compara-bly reliable as the dependence σ2(ν) ∝ 1/ν cancels the 

ns ∝ ν dependency so that the right side of Eq. (2.22) becomes constant in the low-ν limit. In Fig. 2.13 we dis-play the product ∼ νσ 2 for the NbN films studied in this work. The zero-frequency extrapolation is taken as the mean value of the two left-most data points and shown as red stars. To account for the different relative temperatures 

T /T c of the various measurements, we correct to thus-obtained value of ns(T ) by assuming the two-fluid ap-proximation [57] 

ns(T )

ns(0) ≈ 1 − t4 (2.23) which only relies on the relative temperature t = T /T c .The applicability of this approximation is shown for a representative sample with Tc = 6 .4 K in Fig. 2.12(a), where a fit according to Eq. (2.23) yields a satisfying de-scription of the temperature dependence 62 . 62 Note that the zero-temperature ex-trapolation of ns and the value at the lowest measurement temperatures differs by less than 5% so that the actual form of ns(T ) plays only a minor role for ns(0) .

Figure 2.12(b) compares ns(0) with the total carrier den-sity ne obtained by Hall measurements in the normal state [40]. As the resistivity of the films is increased towards criticality, both Tc and ne are reduced. Ac-cording to Eq. (2.20) the decline of ne should cause the same reduction of ns. Experimentally, however, we find 

ns to be reduced approximately 10 times stronger than 

ne by nearly two orders of magnitude. The progressive 66 

Figure 2.12: Superfluid and total carrier densities 

(a) temperature dependence of the superfluid density nS

for a sample with Tc = 6 .4 K. The solid line is a fit to the two-fluid approximation giving a zero-temperature ex-trapolation of ns(0) = 2 .07 × 10 25 m−3. (b) Comparison between the total carrier density ne [40] from normal-state Hall measurements and the zero-temperature su-perfluid density obtained from σ2(ν). Note the stronger decay of ns compared to ne in agreement with a redistri-bution of spectral weight weakening the superfluid contri-bution towards criticality. Lines are guides to the eye. 

suppression of superfluid spectral weight is in agreement with the redistribution thereof at finite frequencies due to the emergence of the Higgs mode. Note that this finding also proves the superconducting origin of the excessive dynamical conductivity in σ1(ν) and rules out a redis-tribution of spectral weight from higher energies due to, e.g., a change in the plasma frequency. Finally, we address the dispersion of the Higgs mode. For this we subtract the predicted σ1(ν) curves based on the tunneling pair-breaking strength from the ac-tual measurements. The upper panel of Fig. 2.14 dis-plays σHiggs (ν) extracted for four samples 63 with Tc =63 Although traces of excessive conduc-tivity appear in sam-ples with Tc up to 14.3 K, a meaningful        

> isolation of σHiggs
> only works for the samples shown in Fig. 2.14 due to the finite data spacing.

7.5 − 4.2 K. Although the studied spectral range allows to capture the major part of the Higgs mode (displayed as thick blue lines), it´s connection to the quasi particle curve at high frequencies (thin black lines) is not fully re-covered for all samples. To calculate the spectral weight of the Higgs mode for a quantitative comparison with the reduction in ns, an extrapolation is required, whose The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 67 

Figure 2.13: Determination of the superfluid den-sity The figure assembles experimental results on the in-ductive response of NbN samples under study multiplied with frequency, νσ 2 which according to Eq. (2.22) mea-sures the superfluid density in the limit ν → 0 (shown as red stars) 

particular form, however, strongly affects the resulting integral. Unfortunately, the inaccessible high-frequency tail renders a quantitative spectral weigh analysis impos-sible. Nevertheless, some important connections can be made to theory. The lower panel of Fig. 2.14 displays the theoretical prediction of the bare Higgs mode con-ductivity obtained from Quantum Monte-Carlo studies of the disordered XY Hamiltonian [56] at various dis-tances from the SIT measured in terms of the disorder parameter p. To relate the energy scale of the simula-tion, the Josephson energy EJ , to experiment, one can 68 

estimate EJ from the clean-sample Tc as EJ = 2 kB Tc/π 

[58] yielding σHiggs /σ 0 EJ ≈ 0.8 meV. In experimental units, the energy scale in the lower panel of Fig. 2.14 would then cover frequencies 0 − 64 cm −1 similar to the measurement range. Comparing the measured and sim-ulated σHiggs (highlighted by colored areas beneath cor-

Figure 2.14: Higgs conductivity in experiment and theory. Top panel: excessive conductivity extracted by subtraction of the quasiparticle contribution from the ex-perimental σ1(ν) for various films towards criticality. As 

Tc goes down, the mode grows in spectral weight and ac-quires a maximum shifting towards lower energies. Bot-tom panel: Higgs conductivity calculated from QMC sim-ulations of the disordered XY Hamiltonian [56] at various disorder values. Shaded curves are chosen for compari-son based on line shape similarities to the experiment. The Higgs mode and the Higgs mass 69 

responding curves) reveals a fundamental resemblance: starting far from criticality, both amplitude and width of the mode increase towards the SIT. At the same time, a pronounced peak evolves that grows in amplitude and shifts towards lower energies. A close examination, how-ever, also reveals differences: While the clean onset of absorption at mH of the O(2) model is somewhat washed out by disorder, the measured σHiggs displays a clear on-set at finite energies. This points towards the important question of the interplay between disorder, the SIT, and the Higgs mode we will address in the next section. In conclusion, by systematic comparison of tunneling and optical measurements on a set of NbN films tuned towards the SIT we unraveled an energy scale that shifts below the superconducting energy gap ∆ associated with the emergence of an enhanced conductivity at energies around 2∆ . Neither disorder enhanced pair-breaking effects nor an inhomogeneous spatial gap distribution could explain the evolution of the additional spectral weight and shift of absorption threshold towards criti-cality. Instead, we suggest that the vicinity to quantum criticality and the short coherence length of the quasi-2D films allow a treatment within the fully relativistic bosonic O(2) field theory. Within this framework, we in-terpret the additional absorption channel beyond quasi particle dynamics as the collective amplitude mode of the superconducting order parameter, namely the Higgs mode, and the new energy scale diving below ∆ as the Higgs mass mH . The appearance of the Higgs mode goes hand in hand with an anomalous reduction of su-perfluid density and is in good agreement with the line shape predictions obtained from Quantum Monte Carlo simulations of the disordered XY Hamiltonian. The ob-servation of the softening Higgs mode is a direct proof that the SIT is a quantum critical point in which a di-verging timescale is detected [59]. Evidently, the vicin-ity to the QPT offers a unique opportunity to study the nature of the low energy collective excitations in super-conductors. As a prototype of quantum criticality, the findings presented here also have implications on broader questions about the effects of interactions and disorder in condensed matter, and to related questions in inter-acting cold atoms and quantum statistical mechanics. 70 

# 2.5 Some concluding remarks on the Higgs mode in disordered systems 

In the previous sections we considered NbN films tuned to quantum criticality by increasing disorder. Indeed, disorder certainly increases as measured by the increas-ing normal state resistivity and, e.g., the Ioffe-Regel pa-rameter kF ℓ [40]. Considering disorder, however, as the underlying mechanism driving the thin films from su-perconducting to insulating phases, may lead to trou-blesome inconsistencies in the above interpretation that deserve a closer examination. In what follows, we will first argue, that disorder increases, but not necessarily causes the SIT, and, by this, justify the applicability of the disorder-free O(2) field theory on which the above interpretation is essentially build on. The experimentally detected Higgs modes, displayed in                  

> Figure 2.15: Average total kinetic energy obtained from sim-ulations of the XY Hamiltonian as func-tions of disorder p
> and the Coulomb-to-Josephson energy ra-tio EC/E J. The SIT (dashed lines) can be realized by tuning p
> or EC/E J. Adopted from Ref. [56].

the upper panel of Fig. 2.14, were qualitatively mapped to simulations of the disordered XY Hamiltonian. In particular, the highlighted curves in the lower panel of Fig. 2.14 correspond to disorder parameters p =0.025, 0.1, 0.15, and 0.2 which have to be compared to the value at the SIT, pc = 0 .337 . While the assignment Tc − p was done here considering similarities of experiment and the-ory, establishing a direct relation between both param-eters is delicate. A possible route includes the average kinetic energy along the x-bonds in the disordered XY 

square lattice, ⟨− kx⟩, given as [56] 

⟨− kx⟩p = 1

π

> ∞

ˆ

> −∞

dω {nsδ(ω) + σHiggs (ω, p )} (2.24) which relates to the experimentally accessible sheet re-sistances R□ of clean and disordered systems as [58] 

R□(disordered) 

R□(clean) = ⟨− kx⟩p

⟨− kx⟩p=0 

. (2.25) The left-sided ratios of Eq. (2.25) for the samples under study are approximately 1.45, 1,5, 1.66, and 2.43 in approach of the SIT. The corresponding p-value, see Fig. 2.15 are approximately p =0.029, 0.033, 0.043, and Some concluding remarks on the Higgs mode in disordered systems 71 

0.092, i.e. systematically lower than the anticipated val-ues above. This could, on the one hand, suggest that with the critical disorder pc = 0 .337 , the samples under study are still far from the SIT which appears rather un-likely considering the massive suppression of Tc. Alterna-tively, the SIT in thin films of NbN might not necessarily be driven by disorder, but instead the competition be-tween Coulomb and Josephson energies, i.e. localization and mobility of charges. This second route envisions a SIT even for zero disorder, when the system falls apart into superconducting islands decoupled from each other, so that Cooper pairs are localized. This scenario of an emergent electronic inhomogeneity is supported by local measurements of the order parameter amplitude ∆(r) . In addition, the sharpness of the SIT in NbN favors a tran-sition driven by EC /E J instead of pure disorder, which would rather destroy the QCP and turn the direct SIT into a blurred superconductor-metal-insulator transition [47]. Unfortunately, we cannot directly compare our ex-cess conductivity shown in Fig. 2.14 to simulations for a 

EC /E J driven SIT as these data have been made pub-lic only in parts. The main difference [56] between the predictions for σHiggs from the p and EC /E J scenarios, however, is a well-defined absorption threshold at the Higgs mass all the way to the SIT in case of the latter in agreement with both our experimental findings and the results of the relativistic O(2) field theory. In the light of these considerations, the SIT in thin films of NbN is likely to be driven by a localization/delocalization mech-anism, where Cooper pairs become trapped in emergent superconducting islands towards the QCP. The subordi-nate role of disorder is important also from another point of view: As discussed previously, the Higgs mode appears from a Lagrangian with relativistic dynamics, i.e. obey-ing Lorentz invariance. The latter is characterized by a dynamical critical exponent of z = 1 . For the disordered superfluid-Mott transition in bosonic systems, one finds 

z = 1 .65 [60] which consequently spoils relativistic dy-namics and existence of a well-defined Higgs mode. In addition, Benfatto et. al have shown that once disorder is introduced, the amplitude and phase fluctuations of the order parameters are mixed so that one can no longer speak of separate dispersive amplitude and phase modes [61, 62]. At the same time, the Higgs mode considered 72 

here is a q = 0 mode and so it is not strongly affected by the lattice and lattice disorder. Furthermore, near the clean QCP, the Higgs mode provides the dominant con-tribution to the spectral weight which cannot suddenly disappear once weak disorder is introduced. At the time of writing this thesis, there is no consensus on the relative importance of amplitude and phase modes in weakly dis-ordered systems. While calculations up to the random-phase-approximation (RPA) level [61, 62] put emphasis on the latter, the more fundamental QMC simulations [56] favor the first 64 .64 Although only the RPA analysis al-lows to clearly dis-entangle phase and amplitude contribu-tions, which is not possible in the QMC simulations. 

Finally, we note similar THz time-domain measure-ments as discussed in this chapter have been conducted by Armitage et al. [63] shortly after we had published 

Figure 2.16: Normal-state optical data for various NbN films measured by (a) frequency domain THz spec-troscopy (this work) and (b) time-domain THz spec-troscopy (values taken from [63]). While the experi-mental studies presented in this work reveal a frequency-independent σ1,n , a growing rise with frequency is re-ported in Ref. [63]. (c) Raw transmittivity spectra for two films (this work) far and close to the SIT together fitted by a frequency-independent Drude conductivity (yellow) and a curve assuming a dispersion similar to the Tc = 3 .8 Ksample of panel (b). Some concluding remarks on the Higgs mode in disordered systems 73 

our main results. While the main experimental finding, i.e. the impossibility to explain the optical results on pure basis of pair-breaking induced from tunneling mea-surements, is identical with what is presented in detail in Sec. 2.3, the experimental outcomes concerning the normal state conductivity σ1,n (ν) differ significantly: In this work, σ1,n (ν) reveals (within the experimental error bars) a flat Drude response which is seemingly at odds with the results of Ref. [63], where σ1,n (ν) grows with frequency towards criticality, see Fig. 2.16(a,b). The au-thors of Ref. [63] attribute this to the localization ten-dencies of the charge carriers and restrict their analysis to the normalized superconducting spectra to meet the requirement for a dispersion less normal state withing the standard BCS expression for σ1(ν). Such a nor-malization is not required for the data presented and discussed in this work. To rule out a systematic error stemming from our ˆσ(ν) analysis, we can directly com-pare the raw transmittivity spectra, T (ν), of two films far ( Tc = 14 .3 K) and close ( Tc = 4 .2 K) to the SIT, see Fig. 2.16(c). Irrespective of Tc, the T (ν) spectra do not feature any frequency dependence beyond the Fabry-Perot pattern in favor of a frequency indepen-dent film conductivity, which is supported by a perfect Drude fit (yellow lines) with a relaxation rate at eV en-ergies or higher. For comparison, another T (ν) curve is shown (black line) based on a conductivity rise similar of the Tc = 3 .8 K sample displayed in Fig. 2.16(b) clearly at odds with our measurement. Although the spectral range of Ref. [63] is greater by a factor of two so that a frequency dependence can more easily be traced, the different results and how they may be related to an tech-nical origin, remain an open problem. At about the same time the results of this chapter were published, another superconducting excitation also termed Higgs mode has been reported by Matsunaga et al. by measuring the dynamics of the energy gap ∆ of the BCS superconductor Nb 1−xTi xN in the non adiabatic regime after an intense THz pulse [64]. These studies revealed an oscillatory behavior of ∆( t) quickly leveling off to the equilibrium value ∆0, which can be under-stood using the BCS Hamiltonian expressed in terms of pseudo-spins introduced by Anderson. This Higgs 74 

mode , however, is qualitatively distinct from the rela-tivistic Higgs mode of the O(N ) field theory. While the mode reported in Ref. [64] resides exactly at 2∆ and is a consequence of the single-particle DOS of weak-coupling BCS superconductors 65 , the quantum-critical mode pre-65 Pictorially, the weak-coupling mode can be understood as a coherent breath-ing mode of Cooper pairs oscillating around their center of mass [65]. 

sented in this work is a strong-coupling mode with an energy solely determined by the distance to the QCP not related to ∆ at all [47]. The question, which of both modes should meaningfully be interpreted as the Higgs particle analogue, is not only of semantic nature. The Higgs particle is a bosonic excitation of longitudinal components of the Higgs field which obeys relativistic dy-namics. The strong-coupling Higgs mode emerges from the essentially identical Lagrangian with no fermionic degrees of freedom and becomes well-defined only be-low 2∆ towards criticality. Here, the composite nature of Cooper pairs and the superconducting scale ∆ be-comes irrelevant, which is clearly not the case for the weak-coupling mode residing exactly at 2∆ . Further-more, the strong-coupling mode follows from the O(N )

model as an excitation of the order parameter field ψ,while the weak-coupling mode is an oscillation of the en-ergy gap ∆, which, strictly speaking, is not the same 66 .66 In fact, using                 

> ∆as the supercon-ducting order pa-rameter is area-sonable approxima-tion for BCS super-conductors, which, however, may break down in presence of strong pair-breaking as shown early after BCS by Abrikosov and Gorkov, when the energy gap van-ishes, while super-conductivity persists [19, 20, 21].

In that sense, linking the strong coupling mode to the Higgs particle is not only reasonable, but also allows a fascinating view on the universe: When crossing from insulator to superconductor within the O(N ) model, the ground state of the symmetric order-parameter field ψ

starts with an expectation value of ⟨ψ⟩0 = 0 and there is no Higgs mode, while in the superconducting broken-symmetry phase ⟨ψ⟩0̸ = 0 and a Higgs mode emerges. In the identical sense, the universe passed through a criti-cal point shortly after the Big Bang, when the temper-ature dropped below the electroweak unification scale of about 250 GeV. Today, the ground state of the Higgs field breaks symmetry giving rise to massive Higgs bosons, which are - so to speak - nothing else but critical modes of the early-universe phase transition. 3. 

# Experimental studies on gran-ular Al thin films  

> Was auch immer wir jetzt wissen, Whatever we know, is certainly not correct, whatever we do, certaily doesn’ t matter. ist mit Sicherheit nicht richtig. Was auch immer wir jetzt machen, ist mit Sicherheit egal
> Die Nerven

Content of this chapter are experimental studies on the transport- and dynamical conductivity of superconduct-ing granular Al, i.e. films composed of nanoscaled grains of aluminum coupled into a macroscopic array. We will start our discussion with a short introduction to super-conductivity in confined geometries at the nanoscale gov-erned by the interplay of phase-number uncertainty and the shell effect. Section 3.2 will provide both an intro-duction to the superconductivity of granular Al with em-phasis on the well-known yet enigmatic superconducting dome in the phase diagram and a broader context aim-ing for a unified picture of granular and unconventional superconductors by virtue of a common fundamental in-terplay of superconducting energy scales. In Sec. 3.3 we will start with a discussion of the resistive transitions and -fluctuations of various samples with different resistiv-ity, and afterwards focus on dynamical conductivity ˆσ(ν)

and, in Sec. 3.4, identify the energy gap ∆ and the super-fluid stiffness J as underlying energy scales shaping the superconducting dome in terms of an amplitude-phase crossover with a pseudogap feature discussed as natu-ral consequence thereof in Sec. 3.4.2. In the following Sec. 3.5 we will closely examine a low-energy absorption evident in several samples, which we identify as the col-lectiive excitation of the phase field, the supeconducting Goldstone mode, within a nearly parameter free micro-scopic model. 76 

# 3.1 Some considerations on nano-scale superconductivity 

3.1.1 The number-phase uncertainty 

The hallmark of a superconducting condensate is the constant phase of the many-body wave function across the system. For nanoscaled superconductors, however, the phase-lock is not a priori prevailed due to the con-finement of carriers. This is captured in the impor-tant number-phase uncertainty which is a fundamental property of coherent many-body states. In what fol-lows, we will briefly introduce this uncertainty relation and discuss the implications for superconductivity at the nanoscale. We start with the Lagrangian Eq. (1.16) for supercon-ductivity as introduced in Sec. 1.3, where we maintain 67 67 i.e. we rewind the gauge transfor-mation applied to Eq (1.22) 

the phase field ϑ(x)

L = i2 ∂tρ − qρ 

(

A0 + 1

q ∂tϑ

)

− 12m

(

(∇ρ)2

4ρ + q2ρ

(

A − 1

q ∇ϑ

)2)

+μρ − λ

2 ρ2 − 14 Fμν Fμν (3.1) Note that this expression reflects the Ginzburg-Landau functional for classical fields ρ(x) and ϑ(x). In order to obtain an expression relating the uncertainties associ-ated with the density field ρ and the phase ϑ, we must replace the classical fields by operator-valued fields ˆρ(x)

and ˆϑ(x). This is formally done by imposing commutator relations [1] reading 68 68 with the time-like component of the momentum den-sity       

> ˆΠμ
> ˆϕ≡∂μL
> ∂(∂μˆϕ)
> where ˆϕ= ˆ ρ, ˆϑ

[

ˆρ(x, t ), ˆΠ0

> ρ

(y, t )

]

= iδ (3) (x − y) (3.2) 

[ ˆϑ(x, t ), ˆΠ0

> ϑ

(y, t )

]

= iδ (3) (x − y) (3.3) Using the above definitions and the superfluid Lagrangian, the momentum densities are easily calculated as ˆΠ0

> ρ

(y, t ) =  

> i
> 2

and ˆΠ0

> ϑ

(y, t ) = −ˆρ(y, t ) and Eq. 3.3 reads 

−

[ ˆϑ(x, t ), ˆρ(y, t )

]

= iδ (3) (x − y) (3.4) Some considerations on nano-scale superconductivity 77 

We integrate this expression over positions y so that the density field is converted into the number operator ˆN

giving the commutator 

[ ˆϑ(x), ˆN

]

= −i (3.5) for all times t. Equation (3.5) states that the phase and the particle number of the superconducting condensate are conjugate variables, i.e. there is a uncertainty rela-tion 69 between both such that [1] 69 which, however, is formally not a                     

> quantum uncer-tainty relation as
> ˆϑis not Hermitian and has no contin-uous single-valued eigenvalue spectrum [1]. In a more rig-orous way, treating ̂
> sin( ϑ)as operator-valued gives aproper yet less insightful quantum-uncertainty relation [66].

∆N ∆ϑ ≥ 12 (3.6) This is an important result for many-body condensates linking the number of condensed particles and the global phase of the coherent wave function. In case of an ordi-nary superconductor, the low-temperature BCS ground state is macroscopically occupied so that ∆N is large [1]. Consequently, the uncertainty in the phase, ∆ϑ is vanishingly small. This has to be contrasted with the extreme conditions of individual nanoscale grains, where the number of electrons in, e.g., a 2 nm grain of Al is of the order of a few hundred, which is many orders of mag-nitude less than in bulk Al. Assembled to a macroscopic yet electrically decoupled array, the particle number is subject to negligible fluctuations and the ensemble av-erage is ∆N ≈ 0. In turn, the uncertainty with the phase, ∆ϑ must be large. Obviously, the requirement for a phase lock on macroscopic scale cannot be met so that a true superconducting condensate ceases to exist in such a confined system. Surprisingly, this does not nec-essarily imply the concomitant absence of a finite pairing gap ∆ as we will discuss below. 

3.1.2 The shell effect 

A single Al atom contains 13 electrons which are strongly localized around the nucleus. This spatial confinement allows only certain discrete energy eigenstates, which are referred to as orbitals, or less precise, shells. If assembled in lattices of macroscopic size, the spatially more extended orbitals may overlap so that the occupy-ing electrons move freely from atom to atom. The dis-persion relation is approximately that of a free electron 78 

gas, E = ( ℏ|k|)2/2m, and the density of states (DOS) D

is a smooth function D(E) ∝ √E and essentially flat in the vicinity of the Fermi energy EF , see Fig. (3.1). In in-dividual nanoscaled grains, the electrons delocalization is naturally limited by the size of the grain. Consequently,                                       

> Figure 3.1: (Schematic view) For a bulk piece of Al (e.g. major parts of the author’s road bike), the DOS is that of aquasi-free electron gas and approximately con-stant in the pairing window EF±ED.For an Al nanograin composed of afew
> 100 atoms, the DOS is aseries of (pos-sibly degenerated) sharp shell levels and might be sub-stantially enhanced within EF±ED
> compared to the bulk (green, dotted), enhancing the pair-ing efficiency.

the smooth and continuous DOS of the bulk stemming from complete delocalization, is replaced by a set of dis-crete (and maybe highly degenerate) energy levels, or, in analogy with nuclear or atomic physics, shells , defined by the size (and symmetry) of the grain. Stronger confine-ment favors sharper discretization and higher symmetry (e.g. for spherical grains) enhances level degeneracy. As already done in the original work of BCS, the explicit form of D(E) appearing in the self-consistency equation for the pairing energy given by [67] 

1 = λ

2

> ED

ˆ

> −ED

1

√E2 + ∆ 2

D(E)

Dbulk (EF ) tanh 

( √E2 + ∆ 2

2kB T

)

dE 

(3.7) (where λ is the BCS coupling constant and ED is the De-bye energy cut-off) is simplified such, that D(E) is taken constant within the pairing window ±ED and removed from the integral. While this approximation is valid in most metallic superconductors, it is deemed to fail for systems, where, e.g. as result of the shell effect, D(E) is strongly influenced by the size and shape of nanograins. Indeed, by combining the BCS self-consistency equation with a semi classical expression for D(E) and the inter-action matrix elements, Garcia-Garcia et al. have shown, that small changes in the electron density or shape of an individual nanograin lead to substantial changes of ∆ as result of the shell effect [68]. Similar results for finite-size pairing gap fluctuations where achieved by Olofsson 

et al. [69] in the broader context of ultra-cold Fermi gases. First works [70, 71, 72] envisioning enhanced super-conductivity in confined geometries date back to the 1960’s. Yet only half a century later [73], the shell effect and the size-dependent impact on ∆ in individual nanograins was confirmed experimentally by Bose et al. : The tip of a scanning tunneling microscope (STM) was placed above quench-condensed (semi-spherical) isolated grains of Sn of different height h and the tunneling conductance was Some considerations on nano-scale superconductivity 79 

measured well below the bulk-Tc giving the amplitude of ∆. While small modifications of h imposed to large grains leave ∆ approximately unchanged, small grains experience tremendous fluctuations of ∆ upon small vari-ations of h. The increase in ∆-fluctuations with decreas-ing h is explained by ever-sharper electronic shells shift-ing in (enhancement) and out (suppression) the pair-ing window around EF in perfect agreement with the-ory. Surprisingly, the identical experiment performed on Pb nano grains revealed no fluctuations but only a gradual suppression of ∆. The absence is explained by a stronger level broadening due to the short coherence length and quasiparticle lifetime, so that no substantial enhancement of D(EF ) is realized, yet confirming the in-terpretation in terms of the shell effect. By virtue of                          

> Figure 3.2: Upon fine tuning the Josephson coupling
> EJand Coulomb blockade Ecof nnanograin array, acoherent superfluid condensate may ex-ist with similar local phases φi,while the shell effect still enhance ∆in each grain, so that Tcis enhanced compared to the bulk (i.e. the strongly-coupled limit)

the number-phase uncertainty Eq. (3.6) those Sn or Pb nanoislands cannot sustain a macroscopically coherent condensate as the number of charge carriers is fixed and the phase of different grains is completely disordered. Still, it envisions a possible route to controlled enhance-ment of macroscopic superconductivity by engineering arrays of nanograins sufficiently small to enhance the pairing efficiency yet electronically coupled to let Cooper pairs tunnel between grains. Obviously, two antagoniz-ing effects have to be brought together: strong grain coupling (i.e. the Josephson energy exceeds the Coulomb blockade, EJ ≫ EC ) favor a rigid phase, which is mea-sured in terms of the superfluid stiffness J, but weakens the shell effect, whereas poor coupling ( EJ ≪ EC ) en-hances ∆ but suppresses phase coherence. The situation is sketched in Fig. 3.2 where the limit EJ ≫ EC implies 

φ1 ≈ ... ≈ φ4 while for EJ ≪ EC the local phase fields can be greatly different. It is not a priori clear if there is a regime of coupling, where Tc can actually be increased over the bulk value, or if the inter-grain coupling over-compensates the shell effect. Based on their work on isolated nanograins [68], Mayoh and Garcia-Garcia con-sidered nanograins assembled in Josephson-coupled 3D arrays of different geometry. By tuning down the grain coupling, they could show, theoretically, that indeed Tc

is first enhanced, passes a maximum at optimal coupling, and eventually dwindles to zero. In the next section we will introduce the most well-80 

known system of this kind, granular Al thin films, and see, if the above scenario sheds some light on a problem that has withdrawn from solution for more than half a century. 

# 3.2 Superconductivity in granular aluminum 

3.2.1 The phenomenology 

Bulk samples of Al become superconducting below a critical temperature of Tc = 1 .19 K and are considered prototypical superconductors, whose properties are well-understood within the conventional BCS theory. It has been realized in the late 1960’s that thin superconduct-ing Al films can readily be produced with a wide range of normal-state electrical transport resistivities ρdc , rang-ing from metallic films with low resistivity (LR) and superconducting low-temperature ground state to high-resistivity (HR) films with activated resistivity behav-ior and insulating low-temperature ground state 70 . For 70 An excellent re-view including the arguably most com-plete list of refer-ences on supercon-ductivity in granu-lar Al is found in Ref. [74] 

disordered metallic thin films, a suppression of super-conductivity due to pair breaking, e.g. resulting from spin-flip or strong potential scattering due to disorder, was already discussed soon after the introduction of BCS theory [19, 20, 21]. However, thermally evaporated su-perconducting thin Al films were found to act quite dif-ferently: comparing films with increasing ρdc shows that 

Tc first starts to rise above the bulk-value, passes a max-imum with Tc = 2 K at around ρdc = 1000 μΩcm and subsequently decreases and eventually vanishes, enclos-ing a superconducting dome in the phase diagram, see Fig. 3.3. The enhanced superconductivity is even more pronounced when the substrate, onto which the Al film is evaporated, is held at liquid-nitrogen temperatures dur-ing growth. Here, at ρdc of a few 100 μΩcm, a maxi-mum Tc of 3.2 K is found - almost three times the bulk value! With the advent of methods visualizing the mor-phological structure at the nanoscale it was possible to identify the granular nature of the thin Al films, i.e. macroscopic arrays of microscopic grains electrically cou-pled through thin oxide barriers covering the grains [76, 77]. The thickness of the barrier naturally dictates the macroscopic resistivity, which, in turn, can be under-Superconductivity in granular aluminum 81 

stood as the degree of inter-grain coupling. Apparently, the strength of coupling is the microscopic control pa-rameter that tunes granular aluminum through the su-perconducting dome. Furthermore, it was now possible to attribute the differently shaped domes for room- and liquid-nitrogen temperature growth to the average grain size: the lower the substrate temperature, the smaller the grains, i.e. 3 nm grains for growth at 300 K and 2nm at 77 K, in particular. Comprehensive transport measurements on 2 nm-grain samples [74] show the rapid suppression of Tc on the HR side of the superconducting dome. Films with a room-

Figure 3.3: Superconducting domes in granular Al 

thin films composed of nanoscaled grains experience first an enhancement of Tc as the inter-grain coupling (mea-sured by ρdc ) decreases and pass a maximum for opti-mal coupling, before superconductivity eventually ceases at high resistivities. For grains with average diameter of 3 nm the maximum Tc is around twice the bulk value of 1.19 K, whereas for smaller grains (2 nm), Tc can be pushed to 3.2 K - a tremendous enhancement by around 300%. The shaded area marks the regime of temperature and ρdc studied in this work. (Parts of the shown data are taken from Ref. [74, 75]). 82 

temperature resistivity 71 ρrt exceeding ∼ 1.3×10 4 μΩcm 71 Unfortunately, the characterization of films by means of                   

> ρdc is handled incon-sistently throughout literature. Some works refer to
> ρdc (300 K) ,while others (e.g. this work) use ρdc right above Tc.As for poorly coupled films
> ρdc rises strongly between 300 K and
> Tc,this ambiguity should be considered carefully.

display the onset of a resistive transition at around 1.8 K, yet also a pronounced resistive tail so that a true zero-resistance state is not observed for temperature higher than at least 500 mK. For films with ρrt ≥ 2.1×10 4 μΩcm this resistive tail turns into a exponential rise signaling insulating behavior. By means of muon spin-rotation (μSR) and magneto-resistance (MR) experiments, Bachar 

et al. gathered evidence [78] that granular Al undergoes a metal-to-(Mott)-insulator transition (MIT), when the Coulomb blockade EC exceeds the (effective) Fermi en-ergy EF . This transition is driven by the grain coupling and so it will take place even at zero temperature by virtue of the quantum nature of the transition. With these insights on the nature of granular Al at very high resistivity, one can propose a phase diagram, that, in a broader context, suggests to put granular Al alongside a few of the most fascinating correlated-electron systems in the field of condensed matter. 

3.2.2 The broader context: superconducting domes and energy scales       

> Figure 3.4: Schematic (and simplified) phase diagrams of various correlated-electron superconductors. Reproduced from Refs. [79, 80, 81, 82]

A superconducting dome is commonly found in the phase diagram of superconducting materials if their critical tem-perature Tc depends on a control parameter such as electron-or hole doping, external magnetic fields, pressure, or chemical composition. The list of materials with a dome-like appearance of superconductivity reads like the who is who of contemporary correlated electron systems: high-

Tc cuprates, pnictides and chalcogenides tuned by pres-sure or doping [79], heavy-fermion compounds such as CePd 2Se 2 tuned by pressure [80], certain quasi-2D or-ganic metals such as the κ-BEDT-TTF salts tuned by interlacing ionic molecules [82], or the two-dimensional LAO/STO interface tuned by electric gating [81]. Un-derstanding the mechanisms that govern such phase dia-grams is one of the major challenges in present solid state physics. The question of the origin of the dome is even-tually equivalent to the fundamental question: What is the hidden mechanism that, upon tuning of a control parameter, initially favors the strengthening of super-conductivity up to some optimum and afterwards leads Superconductivity in granular aluminum 83 

to its suppression? Despite the obvious differences in composition and structure, the phase diagrams of above systems share certain commonalities. Fig. 3.4 schematically reproduces the generic phase diagrams. Neglecting the details, all superconducting domes appear in vicinity of a magnet-ically ordered phase (expect for the LAO/STO inter-face) which disappears with increasing control param-eter. In many cases, the magnetic phase is believed to be terminated by a T = 0 quantum critical point (QCP) around which superconductivity evolves as fa-vorable ground state. From the experimental point              

> Figure 3.5: Generic scheme for asu-perconducting dome emergent from com-peting energy scales, i.e. pairing ampli-tude ∆and super-fluid stiffness J, op-positely affected by an increasing control parameter. Repro-duced from Ref. [37].

of view, any attempt to explain the particular shape of a superconducting dome eventually needs to identify the mechanism that destroys superconductivity at Tc. Being a phase-coherent condensate of pairs, this happens by virtue of either the loss of pairing amplitude or the loss of phase coherence - two mechanisms each of which can be quantified by energy scales, namely the superconducting energy gap ∆ and the superfluid stiffness J, respectively. While ∆ simply measures the energy gain associated with pairing up two quasi particles, the superfluid stiffness J

measures the robustness of the global superconducting phase field ϑ(r) against fluctuations. The latter quantity is closely related to the density of coherently condensed quasiparticles, the superfluid density ns. Clearly, the su-perconducting state requires ∆ and J to be finite. It is, however, not a priori clear, which of both vanishes and defines Tc for a given system. For BCS superconductors, 

J ∼ EF ≫ ∆ and Tc equals the temperature Tpair , where pairing no longer becomes energetically favorable, while the phase lock would, in principle, withstand up to much higher temperatures Tϑ. Emery and Kivelson [37] have demonstrated that in a large class of unconventional su-perconductors the situation is different in a sense that J

is comparable or even smaller than ∆ pointing towards a strong susceptibility for phase fluctuations. In these ma-terials, superconductivity ceases at Tϑ as consequence of lost phase coherence, while pairing remains energetically favorable up to temperatures Tpair > T c.The vicinity to a magnetically ordered state is be-lieved to play a key role in the non-phononic pairing mechanism and Ψ( k)-symmetry other than plain s-wave suggested for these unconventional superconductors. Roughly 84 

speaking, one can think of the melting magnetic order to enable long-range spin fluctuations which live on all length scales at the QCP and may act as bosonic pair-ing glue. This puts superconductivity in granular Al in another light: Although bulk Al is not magnetic and the overwhelming amount of experimental studies give no reason to assume anything else than phonon-mediated 

s−wave BCS superconductivity, the presence of localized spins and spin-flip scattering channels is confirmed by 

μSR and MR experiments [83, 78, 74]. With increasing decoupling, the spin-flip relaxation rate grows and trans-port behavior reminiscent of Kondo systems as well as an increase of the effective electron mass m∗ is observed. In total, the dome-like appearance of superconductivity in presence of spin-flip scattering towards a Mott-like state [78], see Fig. 3.6, opens an intriguing new perspective on granular Al which serves as outline for experimental studies presented and discussed in the remainder of this chapter. Figure 3.6: Schematic phase diagram of granular Al. Note the close resemblance with the generic dia-grams of established unconventional superconductors. 

# 3.3 Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 

3.3.1 Resistive transition and paraconduc-tivity 

Granular Al thin films of 40 nm thickness and ∼ 2 nm grain diameter [74, 75, 77] were deposited via ther-mal evaporation on cold substrates 72 . The growth pa-72 See Sec. A.1.2 for more details on the sample preparation rameters were adjusted to yield granular Al with a dc-transport resistivity ρdc to cover the high- and low resis-tivity sides of the superconducting dome 73 .73 Further infor-mation on sample growth and -characteristics are found in Sec. A.1.2 

We start our discussion with the results of the dc-transport measurements of the superconducting transition. The measurements of the surface resistance R(T ) in the vicin-ity of the crucial transition regime were carried out with the sample and temperature sensor being immersed in liquid helium to guarantee a perfect thermal coupling 74 .74 See the Appendix for low-temperature characteristics The calculation of the resistivity from the surface resis-tance was done at ∼ 6 K well above Tc within the van-der-Pauw analysis via 

ρdc = πd 

ln2 (R1 + R2)2 f (3.8) Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 85 1.0 1.2 1.4 050 100 150 

> dc  ( cm)
> T

c = 2.71 K (LR) d

AL = 14 nm   

> 1.0 1.2 1.4 0100 200
> dc  ( cm)
> T

c = 2.9 K (LR) d

AL =15.6 nm   

> 1.0 1.2 1.4 0100 200 300
> dc  ( cm)
> T

c = 2.8 K (LR) d

AL = 16.6 nm     

> 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 0100 200 300
> <1.01 T

c <1.01 T

c 

> <1.01 T

c

> dc  ( cm)
> T

c = 2.51 K (LR) d

AL = 15.2 nm       

> 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 01000 2000
> with pseudogap, T

*/T 

c = 1.27   

> without pseudgap
> dc  ( cm)
> T emperature T /T

c

> T

c = 2.55 K (HR) d

AL = 17.16 nm       

> 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 01000 2000 3000 4000
> <1.01 T

c 

> 1.02 T

c 

> with pseudgap, T

*/T 

c = 1.19   

> without pseudogap
> dc  ( cm)
> T emperature T /T

c

> T

c = 2.2 Kd

AL = 15.08 nm  

> 1.05 T

c

Figure 3.7: Resistive transitions for several repre-sentative granular Al samples studied in this work together with fits of the resistivity with the AL formula (3.9) for LR samples and with the modified AL formula (3.11) for the HR samples. The parameters of the fit are shown in each panel. We define Tc as the tempera-ture, where ρdc becomes immeasurably small. The ver-tical dashed line denotes the midpoint of the transition as an alternative definition of Tc, being only marginally higher than our definition. The gray area shows the range in which ρdc is reduced by 10% to 90% from the value at 5 K. 

with d = 20 nm the film thickness and R1,2 the surface re-sistances for different current-injection orientations, and 

f a correction factor that varied between 1 − 0.9 for the studied samples. This value of ρdc was afterwards used to scale the R(T ) curve to obtain ρdc (T ). Figure 3.7 dis-plays ρdc (T ) for a set of granular Al films. Here, Tc is de-fined as temperature where the measured film resistance becomes vanishingly small. The transitions are compa-rably sharp as shown by the gray areas in Fig. 3.7 delim-iting the regime, in which ρdc is reduced to 90% and 10% 86 

of the value well above the fluctuation regime at 5 K. The alternative definition of Tc as midpoint of the transition leads to only marginally larger values than the above def-inition: In case of the (LR) samples, the deviation δT c/T c

amounts to less than 1% while it does not exceed 5% for HR samples in agreement with previous works on similar films [83, 84]. To analyze the effect of the superconduct-ing fluctuations above Tc (the so-called paraconductivity )we focus on the Aslamazov-Larkin (AL) contribution ∆σ

[85], that is the most relevant near Tc. In agreement with previous work [84], the paraconductivity has the temper-ature dependence expected in 2D, so that [85]: 

∆σAL 

σN

= e2

16 ℏdAL σN

1

ϵ = R□

16 Rc

1

ϵ , (3.9) where Rc = ℏ/e 2, R□ = ρdc /d AL and dAL is a transverse length scale, of the order of the film thickness, that de-termines the effective 2D unit for superconducting fluc-tuations. The parameter ϵ contains the temperature de-pendence, and in the BCS limit it is given by 

ϵ = ln TTc

. (3.10) All data is fitted with the 2D AL formula (3.9), using dAL 

and Tc as a free parameters. As one can see in Fig. 3.7 the agreement with the data in the LR regime is remarkably good, with an effective thickness dAL ≃ 14 − 17 nm as an adjustable fit parameter, that is within a factor of 2-3 from the real film thickness. Given the granular nature of the film this is a reasonable approximation, consider-ing that the fit reproduces the data up to temperatures as large as twice Tc without any other adjustable pa-rameter. On the other hand, when one analyzes the HR films, two remarkable differences arise: (i) the resistivity is not completely saturated up to temperatures as large as twice Tc; (ii) the fit with the AL formula fails around 

T ≃ 1.2Tc, since the experimentally measured paracon-ductivity decays faster than predicted by Eq. (3.9). In-terestingly, the very same behavior has been observed also in underdoped cuprates for samples in the pseudo-gap regime. In this case, the phenomenological function Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 87 

[86]: 

∆σAL 

σN

= R□

16 Rc

1

ϵ0 sinh( ϵ/ϵ 0) , ϵ0 = ln T ∗

Tc

, (3.11) turned out to be a very good model that reduces to the usual one (3.9) when ϵ ≪ ϵ0, so that sinh( ϵ/ϵ 0) ≃ ϵ/ϵ 0,but decays faster for ϵ ≫ ϵ0. As it has been discussed in the context of cuprates [86, 87], such a suppression of paraconductivity with respect to the standard formula (3.9) can be indeed explained assuming that a pseudogap survives in the electronic Green’s function up to a tem-perature T ∗ larger than Tc. In the case of granular Al the formula (3.11) works remarkably well for the two most disordered films, see Fig. 3.7, where, as discussed below, pseudogap signatures are evident also from the analysis of the dynamical conductivity. Finally, Fig. 3.8(a) uni-fies the results for all samples under study and sketches the superconducting dome, whose origin we will unravel in the next section by a systematic study of the supercon-ducting energy determining Tc by virtue of the dynamical conductivity. 

3.3.2 The dynamical conductivity and su-perconducting energy scales 

We now turn to the experimental results on the real and imaginary parts of the dynamical conductivity ˆσ(ν) = 

σ1(ν) + iσ 2(ν) obtained by virtue of phase-sensitive THz spectroscopy 75 . Figure 3.8(b-d) displays conductivity 75 See the Appendix for details on the experimental tech-nique and raw-data treatment. 

spectra for a set of three representative samples spanning from the LR to the HR side of the dome at temperatures 

T ≈ 0.6Tc. Note that here and later on we discuss the conductivity normalized to the normal-state conductiv-ity. The reason is that with a substrate thickness of 2 nm the Fabry-Perot peaks of the superconducting transmis-sion are extremely sharp and, thus, easily affected by standing waves possibly mimicking a too high or too low conductivity. This effect can be removed by normaliza-tion as the standing wave pattern does not substantially change with temperature leaving a smooth curve we can compare within the BCS predictions. In all three cases, 

σ1(ν) is strongly suppressed for T < T c. At the same time, σ2(ν) displays a strong decay with increasing fre-quency reflecting the response of the superfluid. 88 

Figure 3.8: Superconducting dome and dynamical conductivity. (a) Critical temperature Tc as a function of the normal-state resistivity (measured at 5 K) of gran-ular Al films studied in this work. Yellow symbols refer to the samples displayed in panels below. Tc encloses a dome-like superconducting phase with low-, optimal- and high-resistivity regimes. (b-d) (Normalized) spectra of 

σ1(ν) and σ2(ν) of samples located on the left (sample 1), the right (sample 3), and at the maximum (sample 2) of the SC dome. The solid lines are fits to the Mattis-Bardeen theory. Note that the fit on σ1 disregards the low-frequency range due to excessive conductivity beyond Mattis-Bardeen theory. Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 89 

To make further progress on the data, we fit σ1(ν)

and σ2(ν) to the Mattis-Bardeen (MB) functional for dirty-limit 76 superconductors [88, 89] 76 i.e. that the ∆/ℏ                        

> is much less than the quasi particle relaxation rate Γ.Contrarily, in the clean-limit there is no dissipative con-ductivity between the δ-response of the condensate at ν= 0
> (at T=0)and, if at all, high energy interband transitions.

σMB 1 (ν)

σn

= πe 2ns

m∗σn

δ(ν)+ 2

hν 

> ∞

ˆ

> ∆

dϵ g (ϵ) [ f (ϵ) − f (ϵ − hν )] + Θ

hν 

> −∆

ˆ

> ∆−hν

dϵ g (ϵ)) [1 − 2f (ϵ + hν )] 

(3.12) 

σMB 2 (ν)

σn

= 1

hν 

> ∆

ˆ

> −∆,∆−hν

dϵ

(

g(ϵ) [1 − 2f (ϵ + hν )] 

× ϵ(ϵ + hν ) + ∆ 2

√∆2 − ϵ2√(ϵ + hν )2 − ∆2

)

, (3.13) where σn is the normal-state conductivity, f (ϵ) the Fermi-Dirac distribution, Θ = Θ( hν − 2∆) , and the function 

g(ϵ) is defined as 

g(ϵ) = ϵ(ϵ + hν ) + ∆ 2

√ϵ2 − ∆2√(ϵ + hν )2 − ∆2 (3.14) which is the explicit form of the general response function (1.52) discussed in Sec. 1.5 for the case of BCS Green’s functions. The accuracy of the MB fit of σ1(ν) and σ2(ν)

via ∆ as the only free parameter is shown in Fig. 3.8(b-d). Even though the fit captures well the increase of conduc-tivity at ν > 2∆ /(hc ) (where h is the Planck constant and c is the speed of light), it underestimates σ1(ν) at low frequencies. Such an excess conductivity resembles the one observed, e.g., in disordered NbN 77 and InO films 77 see the pre-vious chapter for an comprehensive discussion 

[90, 59] and in cuprate films [91], and is attributed to SC collective modes [91, 92, 62, 56, 59, 61], not included in the MB theory. In the case of granular Al, where the Josephson coupling between grains is expected to be spa-tially inhomogeneous, this excess conductivity may be attributed to SC phase fluctuations, made optically ac-tive by disorder [92, 62, 56]. A comprehensive discussion of this anomalous absorption is found in Sec. 3.5, where 90 

it is identified as the Goldstone mode. The first energy scale of interest, the energy gap measuring the pairing amplitude ∆ is obtained from σ1(ν). To access the sec-ond scale, the superfluid stiffness J, we first fit σ2(ν) to MB, see Fig. 3.8(b-d), and construct the expression 

ns = 2πm ∗

e2 lim  

> ν→0

νσ MB 2 (ν), (3.15) where m∗ and e are the electron effective mass 78 and 78 Studies [78] of the magneto resis-tance in granular Al films showed, that m∗/m 0 =(ρdc /¯ρdc )0.44 where                

> m0is the free-electron mass and
> ¯ρdc ≈50 μΩcm is the resistivity, above which a mass enhancement sets in. We used this for-mula to estimate the mass enhancement for the samples of this study

charge. In a second step, we define [93] 

J = ℏ2nsa

4m∗ = 0 .62 × aλ2 [K] (3.16) Here, a is a transverse length scale, expressed in Å, λ

is the penetration depth in μm and ns/m ∗ = 1 /λ 2μ0e2.In an isotropic 3D system, the length scale a in equa-tion (3.16) is the SC coherence length ξ0, which is the natural cut-off for phase fluctuations, while it is the film thickness in the 2D limit. Measurements of the upper critical field in similar samples [84, 94] gave an estimate of ξ0 ≃ 10 nm, while the analysis [94] of the paracon-ductivity above Tc indicates a 2D character with an ef-fective 2D thickness for superconducting fluctuations of the order of ≃ 15 nm throughout the phase diagram. For the sake of simplicity, we assume a constant value 

a = 10 nm in (3.16) for all samples under study. While most measurements were performed at the base temper-ature T = 1 .65 K of the cryogenic system, the relative temperature T /T c is different across the dome. For a rea-sonable comparison, we account for the different relative temperatures by calculating the zero-temperature expec-tations ∆(0) , n s(0) (and J(0) ) according to the BCS self-consistency equation 79 [95] 79 where the ratio       

> ∆(0) /k BTc(with kB
> the Boltzmann con-stant) is not con-strained to the weak-coupling value 1.78

ln Tc

T = 2 πk B T ∑

> ωn

[

1

ℏωn

− 1

√(ℏωn)2 + ∆ 2

]

(3.17) where ωn = πk B T (2 n+1) with n ∈ N are the Matsubara frequencies and the two-fluid model 

ns

ns(0) ≈ 1 −

( TTc

)4

, (3.18) Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 91 

Figure 3.9: Temperature dependence of the energy gap and superfluid density for two samples on the LR and HR sides of the dome. (a) ∆( T ) of both sam-ples follows the BCS prediction closely, while, in case of the HR sample, ∆( T ) decays weaker towards Tc and tends to survive into the normal state (empty symbols). The persistence of a finite pairing above Tc is in strik-ing resemblance with the pseudogap phase of, e.g., the cuprates. (b) ns of both samples is perfectly described by the 2-fluid approximation and agrees with BCS theory. 

respectively. We checked the applicability of the models (3.17) and (3.18) for two representative samples on the LR and HR side, see Fig. 3.9, for which a temperature se-ries was measured. The separate analysis of σ2(ν) to ob-tain ns(0) is in principle redundant, since within the MB theory we could use directly the value of ∆(0) extracted from the σ1 fits to determine the zero-temperature induc-tive response. Indeed, from Eq. (3.13) one immediately sees that σ2(ν → 0, T = 0) = π∆(0) σn/(hν ). Since in the dirty limit σn coincides with 1/ρ dc in the THz fre-quency range, we can estimate ns(0) as 

n∆ 

> s

(0) = 2πm ∗

e2

π∆(0) 

ℏρdc 

(3.19) so that the corresponding estimate J∆ of the stiffness follows as 

J∆(0) = Rc

R□

π∆(0) 4 , (3.20) where Rc = ℏ/e 2 and R□ = ρdc /a with same scale a

as used in equation (3.16). However, since the devia-tions of σ1(ν) from the MB behavior occurs exactly below 

2∆ , we analyzed σ2(ν) independently of σ1(ν), and we cross-check afterwards the consistency between the two 92 

approaches, see Fig. 3.10. We note that the given esti-mate of J(0) should be taken as an upper bound, since it neglects the additional reduction due to inhomogeneous phase fluctuations [62, 56, 67]. However, the compari-son with previous SQUID measurements [96, 97] of the penetration depth suggests that this effect is still quanti-tatively small for the samples under consideration. Here the extracted values of ns(0) and n∆ 

> s

(0) are converted to the penetration depth λ = 1 /√μ0e2ns/m ∗ (with μ0 the vacuum permeability), in order to compare them with di-rect measurements of λ done in previous works [96, 97], see Fig. 3.10. Both estimates of λ are consistent with each other and they are in very good agreement with previous findings. This shows also that the quantitative suppression of ns, 0 due to the collective-mode contribu-tion below 2∆ in σ2(ν) is relatively small, and it justifies the use of the MB formula to extrapolate σ2 to zero fre-quency. With knowledge of the crucial energy scales 100 1000 10000 110 100  

> from
> 2
> from
> Abraham 1978
> Gershenson 1982
> ( m)
> dc
> (cm )

Figure 3.10: Pen-etration depth λ

versus normal-state resistance. The present work (col-ored dots) very well reproduces results obtained in previous works [96, 97] shown as empty and filled squares, where the inverse penetration depth has been directly measured. In addition, we note that the absolute numbers of λ ob-tained from the inductive response (stars) are nearly identical with the calculation of λ from 

∆ (circles) within MB theory. 

∆(0) and J(0) we can now attempt to explain the par-ticular shape of the superconducting dome of granular Al. Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 93 

Figure 3.11: Superconducting energy scales and lo-cal order parameters (a) Tc, ∆(0) , J(0) , J∆(0) (ex-pressed in units of temperature) and ∆(0) /k B Tc as a function of normal-state resistivity (measured at 5 K) of granular Al films. ∆(0) (olive stars) follows the increase of Tc on the left side of the dome for LR samples while it saturates in the HR regime. This is reflected in the ratio 

∆(0) /k B Tc which increases from the weak-coupling value 1.78 (dotted line) to 2.25 when crossing from the left to the right side of the dome. The calculation of super-fluid stiffness from σ2(ν) and from ∆(0) , i.e. J(0) and 

J∆(0) , is subject to an uncertainty reflected by the shaded area. Dashed lines are guides to the eye. See the text for more details. (b-d) Illustration of the grain array for (b) strong, (c) moderate, and (d) weak inter-grain coupling. The arrows indicate the phase (direction) and amplitude (thickness) of the local superconducting oder parameter. 94 

# 3.4 Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence 

3.4.1 Shaping the superconducting dome 

We express ∆(0) and J(0) in units of Kelvin and plot them together with Tc as a function of ρdc in one frame, see Fig. 3.11(a). Starting on the LR side, we find ∆(0) <J(0) as common for most superconductors and Tc =

Tpair , i.e. superconductivity is destroyed by the cease of Cooper pairs. In terms of absolute numbers, how-ever, J(0) is surprisingly small: For BCS superconduc-tors, J(0) ∼ EF which, for Al, is of the order of a few 

10 4 K which is orders of magnitude more than realized in (even strongly coupled) granular Al. On a (simpli-fying) square lattice of grains the situation can be il-lustrated using local order parameters ψi for each lat-tice site i. We schematically visualize the energy gap 

∆i (pairing amplitude) and the superconducting phase 

ϕi in the thickness and direction or the arrows in the right panels of Fig. 3.11: The situation for strong cou-pling on the LR side is sketched in Fig. 3.11(b) where all local ψi’s point roughly in the same direction. Con-sequently, the phase gradient between neighboring sites is small and J(0) is large. Upon decoupling the grains and tuning towards higher resistivity, the rise of Tc is accompanied by an identically rising ∆(0) , which can be inferred from the constant ratio ∆(0) /k B Tc ≈ 1.78 being in perfect agreement with BCS theory for weak-coupling superconductors. Microscopically, decoupling promotes the individual character of each grain such that quan-tum confinement becomes stronger and the shell effects more efficient boosting the pairing amplitude (illustrated by the thicker arrows in Fig. 3.11(c)). Up to intermedi-ate resistivity, we also find ∆(0) < J (0) implying that superconductivity remains limited by the pairing and 

Tc = Tpair . At the same time, however, we observe a remarkable decline of J(0) ∝ 1/ρ dc , that can be viewed as consequence of growing phase fluctuations across the grain array, see Fig. 3.11(c). For even higher resistivity on the HR side, inter-grain coupling becomes so weak that phase fluctuations push J(0) to values comparably to or, ultimately, even smaller than ∆(0) . Even though the shell effect remains at play keeping ∆(0) strongly Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence 95 

enhanced compared to the bulk 80 , see Fig. 3.11, Tc is re- 80 where, according to BCS, one can es-timate   

> ∆(0) = 1 .78 Tbulk
> c=2.1 K

duced again. In other words, superconductivity on the HR side is limited not by the loss of Cooper pairs, but the loss of the coherent superconducting phase, i.e. Tc = Tϑ.Consistently, the ratio ∆(0) /k B Tc increases up to 2.25 in case of the least-coupled sample under study. In sum-mary, the superconducting dome of granular Al and the underlying crossover from amplitude- to phase driven su-perconductivity can completely be ascribed to the com-peting interplay of pairing enhancement and suppressed phase coherence originating from quantum confinement and enhanced phase fluctuations, respectively. 

3.4.2 The pseudogap for phase-driven superconductivity 

The above suggested scenario has an intriguing conse-quence for the normal state entered via a phase-driven transition, which, at the same time, serves as impor-tant consistency check. When Tc is suppressed by an overly small J, the non-zero ∆ right above Tc should imply a finite pairing amplitude up to some tempera-ture Tpair > T c even without a coherent condensate. Or, from another perspective, when temperature is reduced between Tpair > T > T c, a quasiparticle excitation gap should form, which equals the energy required to break 

preformed pairs. As soon as T = Tc, these pairs condense and superconductivity appears. The notion of an exci-tation gap above Tc due to preformed pairs has become very popular with unconventional cuprate superconduc-tors, commonly referred to as pseudogap 81 . While the 81 To which extent this enigmatic phase of the cuprates is related to supercon-ductivity has been subject of numerous works, yet no con-sensus is achieved. For instance, the pseudogap phase may live ’behind’ the superconducting dome in a sense that there are, loosely speaking, two kinds of Cooper pairs of which only one actu-ally condenses below  

> Tc[98, 99, 100, 101]

situation in the cuprates is immensely complicated by correlation and competing phases, the nature of an pseu-dogap in phase-driven granular Al would be comparably clear. As discussed in Sec. 3.3.1, a indirect signature of a pseudogap can be inferred from dc-transport measure-ments: While on the LR side the paraconductivity agrees with the 2D Azlamazov-Larkin (AL) model for super-conducting fluctuations, the paraconductivity on the HR side requires a AL term which accounts for a pseudogap (see Ref. [86] and references therein). However, this phe-nomenological model was discussed in context of uncon-ventional cuprates, and its applicability to other systems is not a priori given. A more direct verification of the 96 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00   

> 510 15 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00

high -res isti vity sam pl eTc = 2.55 Kopti m al -res isti vity sam pl eTc = 3.15 K

> T

2 .8 K > T c

2 .6 K > T c

2 .4 K

2 .2 K

2 .0 K

1 .8 K

1 .6 5 K      

> s1
> n1
> T(a)
> 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
> (c)
> / (0)
> norm al i zed tem perature T/T

c     

> BCS
> opti m al sam pl e
> HR sam pl e
> upper l i m i t of abs orpti on thres hol d
> (b)
> 01234
> d c  (m  cm)

3 .4 K > T c

3 .2 K > T c

3 .0 K

2 .8 K

2 .6 K

2 .4 K

2 .2 K

2 .0 K 

> s1
> n1
> Frequency (cm

-1 )

Figure 3.12: Temperature evolution of spectral gap. 

(a-b) Temperature dependence of normalized σ1(ν) of a granular Al sample in the high- and optimal resistivity regimes. In case of the HR sample, the suppression of 

σ1(ν) below Tc = 2 .55 K (dashed lines) persists up to 

T = 2 .8 K (solid lines), whereas the spectral gap closes right at Tc in the LR regime. (c) Temperature dependence of the spectral gap for samples from the optimal (stars, sample 2) and high resistivity regimes (diamonds, sample 3). The blue data traces ρdc (T ) of the HR sample. For the HR sample, deviations from the BCS prediction for 

∆( T )/∆(0) (black solid line) appear already at T /T c < 1,where ∆ is anomalously large. The persistence of a gap across Tc (empty diamonds) is in striking resemblance with strongly disordered or correlated superconductors. Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence 97 

pseudogap would be given by an spectral gap in the dis-sipative conductivity σ1(ν) similar as the superconduct-ing gap 2∆ . In this sense, the depletion of states around 

EF should suppress the electromagnetic absorption up to energies corresponding to excitations across the pseudo-gap. Indeed, such a feature was found for a HR sample. In Fig. 3.12(a,b) we compare σ1(ν) spectra of amplitude-and phase-driven samples recorded at various tempera-tures below and above Tc. For an ordinary dirty-limit BCS superconductor, any superconducting correlation vanishes at 82 Tc and the normal state σ1(ν) is frequency 82 or, more pre-cisely, vanish above the fluctuation regime, which for the samples under consideration is limited to 1.02 Tc

> and can be neglected here, see Fig. 3.7.

independent. In fact, at temperatures T > T c the spectra of the amplitude-driven sample, panel (b), are basically indistinguishable and flat within the experimental reso-lution. This is contrasted with the phase-driven sample, panel (a), where a strong suppression of σ1(ν) is observed up to temperatures substantially higher than Tc and the fluctuation regime. The spectral gap is of the same order as the superconducting gap and we can try to estimate it from the absorption threshold. Well below Tc, the fit of 

σ1(ν) within the MB theory gives ∆( T ) closely following the universal BCS curve, see Fig. 3.12(a). In approach of 

Tc, the obtained ∆ exceeds the BCS prediction. Taking the minimum of σ1(ν) at T > T c as upper estimate for the absorption threshold, i.e. the pseudogap, a spectral gap seems to persist into the normal state, in contrast with the amplitude-driven sample, where ∆( T ) closely follows the BCS prediction all the way to zero at Tc . As depicted in Fig. 3.12(c) both gaps below and above Tc

seem to be smoothly connected. To analyze the gapped structure of σ1(ν) in the normal state, a generalization of the MB functional is clearly required as for ∆ = 0 

Eq. 3.12 becomes 

σ1(ν)

σ0

= 2

hν 

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dϵ[f (ϵ) − f (ϵ + hν )] + 1

hν 

> 0

ˆ

> −hν

dϵ[1 − 2f (ϵ + hν )] (3.21) (where σ0 denotes the normal state conductivity above any superconducting correlation), which after analytic integration equals to 1 without any frequency depen-98 

dence. This can be understood as consequence of an energy independent density of states D considered in the standard MB theory. A more general treatment should include variations of D(ϵ) on a energy scale com-parable to ∆ also in the normal state. Seibold et al. 

re-derived the MB functional explicitly allowing for an energy-dependent, yet symmetric density of states [102] 

σ1(ν)

σn

= 2

hν 

> ∞

ˆ

> ∆

dϵ D [Λ 1(ϵ)] D [Λ 2(ϵ)] Λ1(ϵ)Λ 2(ϵ)

× [ϵ(ϵ + hν ) + ∆ 2] [f (ϵ) − f (ϵ + hν )] + Θ( hν − 2∆) 

hν 

> −∆

ˆ

> ∆−hν

dϵ D [Λ 1(ϵ)] D [Λ 2(ϵ)] Λ1(ϵ)Λ 2(ϵ)

× [ϵ(ϵ + hν ) + ∆ 2] [1 − 2f (ϵ + hν )] 

(3.22) where 

Λ1 = √ϵ2 − ∆2

Λ2 = √(ϵ + hν )2 − ∆2. (3.23) In the normal state this expression simplifies to 

σ1(ν)

σn

= 2

hν 

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dϵ D(ϵ)D(ϵ + hν ) [ f (ϵ) − f (ϵ + hν )] + 1

hν 

> 0

ˆ

> −hν

dϵ D(ϵ)D(ϵ + hν ) [1 − 2f (ϵ + hν )] 

(3.24) Using the functional (3.24) we can now attempt to fit the spectra above Tc. As a model, we employ the Altshuler-Aronov type 83 pseudogap [103] 83 which is known to model the tunneling spectra of many dis-ordered systems D(ϵ) = α + (1 − α) tanh 2 ( ϵ

Ω

)

(3.25) with the depletion parameter α and Ω ∼ ∆ the ampli-tude of the pseudogap. Figure 3.13(a) displays σ1(ν) at temperatures T > T c together with a curve calculated Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence 99 

from Eq. (3.24) including Eq. (3.25) with Ω/hc = 1 .66 

and 1.45 cm −1 at 2.6 and 2.8 K, respectively, and deple-tion α = 0 .1. Furthermore, the theory curves were scaled by a factor 1.1. Although one cannot expect the simple model DOS (3.25) to reproduce the experimental σ1(ν)

entirely, it serves as a fairly good general description capturing the suppression at low frequencies and the rise with increasing frequency. At the same time, the pro-nounced feature at intermediate frequencies cannot be modeled appropriately and hence was excluded from the fit. We can now study two distinct models assuming (i) a competing and (ii) common nature of the spectral gaps. In the first scenario we assume, that the normal state gap opens at T ≫ Tc and acts as temperature independent background upon which the superconducting gap opens. This scenario resembles a model suggested 84 for cuprate 84 See the compre-hensive review [104] by Hashimoto et al.       

> on the competition between supercon-ducting order and pseudogap in uncon-ventional cuprate superconductors.

superconductors, where the pseudogap characterizes an electronic phase distinct from the superconducting order. Here, for the sake of simplicity, we assume a temperature independent pseudogap with Ω/hc = 1 .66 cm −1 (and the above depletion α = 0 and scaling factor 1.1), leading to the curve displayed in Fig. 3.13(a). Below Tc, we let the superconducting gap open in the weak-coupling mean-field fashion according to Eq. (3.17). Without any fur-ther free parameter, the generalized MB model (3.22) re-sults in the dot-dashed curves of the panels (b-f). Clearly, the separate treatment of two distinct gaps, ∆ and Ω,leads to a too strong depletion of states and, in turn, a too small absorption for all temperatures T < T c.For the second scenario, we assume that the spectral gaps above and below Tc are smoothly connected, i.e. there is no competition between superconducting order and another electronic phase. This scenario is somewhat more plausible than the above multi-phase model, as the latter arises by virtue of strong electronic correlations which play a minor role in granular Al. This model, however, leaves open the question, how Ω evolves into ∆

across Tc. For the sake of simplicity, we model the exper-imental σ1(ν) above Tc with Eq. (3.24), while below Tc

we skip the energy dependence of D and use the standard MB functional (3.12), where we treat ∆ as fit parameter. The resulting curves are displayed in Fig. 3.13(a-f). The corresponding values of the spectral gaps are shown in panel (h) together with the BCS T -dependence of ∆ for 100 

arbitrary coupling strength. Apparently, this scenario of smoothly connected spectral gaps yields a much bet-ter description of the experimental data. Although the above treatment of spectral gaps right at Tc is an over-simplication (which is reflected in the rather poor fit at 2.4 K), the agreement is remarkable. In this sense, the all Cooper pairs preformed in the pseudogap phase condense into the superfluid condensate below Tc - in contrary to the competing-order model, where only Cooper pairs of a certain Fermi surface fraction actually condense. Far 

Figure 3.13: Evolution of spectral gaps below and above Tc as apparent from (a-f) the dissipative conduc-tivity σ1(ν) of high-resistivity granular Al. (g) Fits to the standard and generalized Mattis-Bardeen functionals (see the main text for more information) include hard-gapped BCS-DOS and Aranov-Altshuler type pseudogap, respectively. (h) temperature dependence of the spectral gaps ∆ and Ω for T < T c and T > T c, respectively, together with the mean-field BCS prediction for the su-perconducting gap. Enhanced pairing versus suppressed coherence 101 

below Tc, the system does not feature signatures of the pseudogap anymore and ∆( T ) follows BCS theory. 

3.4.3 Multi-fractal wave functions - an alternative to enhancing Tc?

To conclude this section we will briefly present an al-ternative mechanism to enhance Tc based on the multi-fractal nature of the electron wavefunctions near local-ization. By a simple renormalization-group treatment of the conductivity discussed in Sec. 2.1.2 we have seen that in 3D a metal-insulator transition occurs at a crit-ical conductance gc or, equivalently, a critical disorder 

pc defining the mobility edge . Following the reasoning of Aoki [105], for a system with pc + ϵ all electron wave-functions are localized so that the state fills a vanishingly small fraction of the total volume of the system. Above the mobility edge, pc −ϵ, the electrons are completely de-localized and the wavefunctions spread across the entire system. Consequently, for a system right at the mo-bility edge, both requirements have to be met which is accomplished by a multi-fractal nature of the wave func-tion. Indeed, models based on multi-fractality [106, 107] have quite successfully been employed to explain the in-homogeneous superconducting correlations, a pseudogap at T > T c, and a hard-gapped insulating state observed in systems close to the superconductor-insulator tran-sition underlining the importance of multi-fractality on superconductivity. In a recent work [108], Mayoh and Garcia-Garcia analytically study the energy dependence and spatial distribution of the order parameter for dif-ferent degrees of multi-fractality. Using percolative tech-niques, this enables the computation of the global Tc

defined as temperature, where a supercurrent starts to flow. The central result is a strong suppression of Tc with disorder compared to the case of a homogeneous order parameter (i.e. in the clean limit), except for the case of very weak-coupling superconductors, such as Al, lead-ing to the highly counterintuitive prediction of modest disorder actually enhancing Tc. This scenario allows an alternative view on superconductivity in granular Al. At low resistivity, the electrons may easily hop from grain to grain so that the staying time within one grain is, pic-torially speaking [109], too short to feel the confinement and the shell effect. The grains simply act as scatterers, 102 

as long as the staying time remains sufficiently small, whereas the confinement-induced Tc enhancement takes over only at higher resistivities. A clear separation be-tween both effects and a determination of the relevant time scales is an important problem left open for further theoretical and experimental studies. Goldstone modes 103 

# 3.5 Goldstone modes 

In this section, we closely examine a peculiar deviation from Mattis Bardeen theory apparent in Fig. 3.8 we en-countered in our discussion of the low-frequency real con-ductivity σ1(ν) of granular Al in Sec. 3.3.2. In greater detail, we will show that the excessive conductivity can be interpreted in terms of collective excitations of the superconducting phase field or Goldstone modes - a fas-cinating phenomenon if only because it bears on the na-ture of spontaneous U (1) symmetry breaking. As we have seen in Sec. 1.3, the topology of the super-conducting order parameter can be used to link the zero-resistance transport of a charged superfluid to the phase rigidity, which itself is a direct consequence of the U (1) symmetry breaking. The Goldstone theorem 85 states 85 originally formu-lated in the con-text of high energy physics 

that in any system with a spontaneously broken con-tinuous symmetry a certain number (given by the rank of the broken-symmetry group) of low-energy collective excitations will appear. For a charged superfluid, we consider breaking of U (1) symmetry and a single Gold-stone mode 86 . Although the relationship between par- 86 This is similar to the case of ferromag-netism, where the spontaneous magne-tization below the Curie temperature breaks rotational symmetry giving rise to Goldstone modes termed                            

> Magnons .Another example is quantum chromodynamics, where the vac-uum breaks chiral
> SU (2) L×SU (2) R
> symmetry causing the emergence of the light pions. Note that in both cases the symmetry of the Lagrangian is only approximate and thus the Gold-stone excitations are light, but not massless as for exact symmetries.

ticle physics and superconductivity was recognized be-fore the BCS milestone, the superconducting Goldstone modes remained elusive and only a theoretical postu-late. This is remarkable, as the gapped superconduc-tor should enable an observation of low-energy modes without contaminations of quasiparticle excitations. The early work of Anderson [110] attributes the disappear-ance to Coulomb interactions, which shift the Goldstone modes to the plasma frequency ωp ≫ ∆, where the de-tection is a hopeless task. At the same time, this re-striction defines a model system where the observation of a Goldstone mode should become possible. First, An-derson’s argument only holds for long-range Coulomb interactions, but fails for short-range interactions com-mon to disordered metals. Second, due to the nature of Coulomb interaction in 2D, the ωp is shifted to zero such that Goldstone modes should acquire spectral weight in-side the superconducting gap. Finally, Anderson’s argu-ment assumes a spatially uniform superconducting order - a requirement clearly violated in disordered or granu-lar superconductors as evident from STM measurements. These considerations envision granular Al as prototypi-104 

cal system, where a Goldstone mode might be detectable by means of optical spectroscopy. An instructive way to understand, how excitations of the superconducting phase can contribute to the conductiv-ity, is the London equation 

j = qn m ∇ϑ (3.26) (with charge q and mass m) we derived from the effec-tive low-energy superconducting Lagrangian 1.23 after integrating-out the energetic fields from 1.13. A gradi-ent ∇ϑ of the phase field causes a current that - without going into details - we can relate [56] to the conductiv-ity 87 87 here as the response function for co-linear cur-rents and fields in 

x-direction 

σ(ω) ∼ −χxx (q = 0 , ω + i0+)

i(ω + i0+) (3.27) obtained after analytic continuation of the the current-current correlation function on the lattice (with Matsub-ara frequencies ωn = 2 nπk B T )

χxx (q, iω n) = ∑

> r

ˆ β

> 0

dτ ⟨jx(r, τ )jx(0, 0) ⟩eiqr eiω nτ

(3.28) in the limit q → 0. To obtain a deeper quantitative understanding of how the Goldstone modes contribute to the conductivity, it is important to start from a mi-3521 cm     

> Excessive  conductivity
> +1
> Resistivity Frequency (cm
> -1
> )
> T~1.65 K

Figure 3.14: Excessive sub-gap conductivity σ+1 (ν)

in granular Al for various temperatures below Tc for samples on the LR and HR sides of the superconducting dome. Goldstone modes 105 

croscopic Hamiltonian for superconductivity. Cea et al. 

[62] considered the fermionic attractive Hubbard model on the square lattice with on-site energy U < 0, local disorder Vi, and hopping t where they define 

jα(q, ω ) = −q2Kαβ (q, ω )Aβ (q, ω ) (3.29) linking the total current in α-direction to a gauge field in β-direction. Clearly, the physics are contained in the response kernel Kαβ which can further be split into dia-magnetic and paramagnetic responses 

Kαβ (q, ω ) = Kdia  

> αβ

(q, ω ) + Kpara  

> αβ

(q, ω )= Dδ αβ − χαβ (q, ω ) (3.30) with the diamagnetic term D being given by the spec-tral weight. While the diamagnetic term accounts for the response of the superfluid, the paramagnetic term gives the quasiparticle conductivity (i.e. particle-hole excita-tions) but allows to treat collective modes by inclusion of higher-order vertex corrections of MB theory. The authors of Ref. [62] supplemented the bare quasiparticle excitation ( χ(0) ) with a higher order contributionwhere an incoming photon couples to a particle-hole excita-tions (the so-called BCS bare-bubble), then excites an intermediate collective mode, another particle-hole exci-tation, and eventually leaves. The possibility of such a process, however, does not automatically imply its ob-servability as the collective modes in clean superconduc-tors only contribute to the finite-q longitudinal response and the Goldstone mode cannot be excited by a photon [62, 111]. In disordered and hence inhomogeneous thin films, however, the coupling becomes non-zero even at 

q = 0 and should lead to a finite absorption. Calcula-tion of the real conductivity via 

σ1(ω) = −q2Re Kxx (0, ω )

i(ω + i0+) (3.31) reproduces the MB result on the bare-bubble level, while the Goldstone mode indeed appears in σ1 by virtue of vertex corrections. Depending on the strength of local-ization/delocalization tendencies set by the relative en-ergy scales U/t and V /t , a notable amount of spectral weight amounts below the quasiparticle threshold 2∆ .106 

Figure 3.15: Decomposition of σ1(ν) in terms of a quasiparticle background following MB theory (solid lines) and additional sub-gap contribution σ+1 (ν) (bars) for two samples measured during the second cool-down. 

In the light of these considerations, we can revisit the experimental results on the low-frequency σ1 obtained in the course of this work. For a number of samples, a significant amount of excessive conductivity σ+1 (ν) (nor-malized to the σ1(ν) at 5 K) is isolated by subtracting the MB curve from the experimental data 88 , as displayed 88 see the previous sections for plots and how the fits were performed 

in Fig. 3.15. At the time of writing it remains unclear, why some samples do and some do not display a notable 

σ+1 (ν). It is worthwhile noting that the strongest sub-gap absorption was found for samples, which had been cooled down before. Interestingly, when cooled to 4He temperatures the first time, only a minor σ+1 (ν) con-tribution could be isolated (see Fig. 3.8b), while σ+1 (ν)

increased drastically as evident from a subsequent mea-surement a few months later, see Fig. 3.14. At the same time, the normal-state resistivity as measure of disorder Goldstone modes 107 

increased from 189 to 263 μΩcm and a slight reduction of Tc from 2.78 to 2.74 K. As the spectral weight asso-ciated with the Goldstone mode sensitively depends on the amount of disorder (rendering the superconducting state spatially inhomogeneous), the strong enhancement of σ+1 (ν) after the first cool down could possibility be attributed to a higher level of disorder caused by the ex-posure to humidity when removed from the cryostat in the first place. A similar enhancement of σ+1 is observed for another sample, where ρdc increased from 1969 to 2110 μΩcm with a concomitant drop of Tc from 2.78 to 2.74 K and 2.7 to 2.55 K. A systematic study is required to explain the selective appearance of σ+1 (ν) and left for future work 89 . 89 Further insights might be drawn from the observation of electron-glass behavior and amemory effect in strongly disordered insulting granular Al [112, 113, 114, 115] 

We will, in what follows, focus on one sample, where the frequency and temperature dependencies of σ+1 (ν) al-lows a particularly comprehensive discussion within the framework of optically active Goldstone modes calcu-lated within a effective bosonic model. A Hamiltonian, that is somewhat more applicable to real systems such as granular Al is the disordered quantum 

XY spin-1/2 model in a transverse random field. This model is inspired from a Heisenberg 2D-lattice of clas-sical spins sj = |sj |eiθ j on each lattice site j serving as simple model for the phase degrees of freedom in a su-perconductor with local order parameters ψj = ∆ j eiθ j .The analogy to a magnetic system is two-fold: First, the Heisenberg system has a non-zero expectation value of the net magnetic moments (i.e. a finite magnetiza-tion M) below the Curie-temperature, in correspondence with a non-zero modulus |∆| (i.e. the superconducting energy gap) of the global order parameter Ψ = ∆ eiθ 

below the critical temperature Tc. In both cases, a ro-tational U (1) symmetry is spontaneously broken as soon as M become finite and Ψ acquires a certain phase. Sec-ond, the strength exchange interaction between spins 

sisj ∼ cos( θi −θj ) dictates the robustness of the magneti-zation against phase fluctuations similar as the superfluid stiffness J is governed by the gradient of the global phase field. In practice, the fermionic spin degrees-of-freedom of the classical Heisenberg Hamiltonian are mapped to operators Sx, S y , and Sz leading to the quantum XY 108 

model on a N × N lattice [62, 116] 

H = −2 ∑

> i

ξiSzi − 2 ∑

> i,j

Jij 

(

S+ 

> i

S− 

> j

+ (S−

> j

)† (S+

> i

)†)

(3.32) with the pseudospin operators defined as 

S+ 

> i

= Sxi + iS yi = c†

> i↓

c†

> i↑

, S− 

> i

= (S+

> i

)† (3.33) and 

Szi = 12

∑

> σ

c† 

> i,σ

ciσ − 12 . (3.34) We see that Szi = ±1/2 represents the site i being occu-pied (+) or unoccupied (-) by a Cooper pair and a finite in-plane magnetization ⟨Sxi ⟩̸ = 0 represents supercon-ducting order. The transverse random field ξi takes the form of a on-site localization energy and represents dis-order, while Jij is the energy required for pair-hopping. This model has proven its applicability to disordered su-perconductors as it accurately reproduces the emergent inhomogeneous superconducting order towards the SIT [117]. More importantly, this modes allows to include phase fluctuations above the mean-field level. In what follows, we will retrace the succession of steps as done by Cea et al. , see Ref. [62]. By means of a Holstein-Primakov (HP) transformation, the model (3.32) is cast into a quadratic Hamiltonian HPS we can diagonalize into a bi-linear Hamiltonian H′ 

> PS

in the usual Bogoli-ubov scheme 90 .90 that means an interacting system (four-operator term) is mapped to anon-interacting (two-operator term) by replacing the par-ticles with energies      

> Eby non-interacting quasiparticles with renormalized ener-gies Eαthat account for the interaction.

H′ 

> PS

= 12

∑

> i

∑

> μ=x,y

Jμi [∆ μΦi]2 + 12

∑

> i,j

χ−1 

> i.j

LiLj (3.35) Here, ∆μ is a discrete derivative in μ-direction and the Bogoliubov quasiparticle operators γα, γ † 

> α

are made explicit in the phase and number operators Φi and Li

Φi = ∑

> α

ϕαi

√2

(γ† 

> α

− γα

) (3.36) 

Li = ∑

> α

ℓαi

√2

(γ† 

> α

+ γα

) (3.37) where ϕiα , ℓiα , and χ−1 

> i,j

are determined from the Bo-goliubov transformation and Jμi = J sin θi sin θi+μ is the Goldstone modes 109 

local superfluid stiffness. The quasiparticle excitations of H′ 

> PS

introduced by the Bogoliubov transformation are equivalent to phase excitations providing a route to cal-culate the dispersion of the optically active Goldstone modes. The coupling to the gauge field Aμ is done in the minimal-coupling scheme replacing ∆μ → ∆μ − 2eA μ in Eq. (3.35) and the conductivity eventually follows as 

σ = e2πδ (ω)Ds + σreg (ω) (3.38) consisting of the superfluid response and a regular part including the effects of Goldstone modes. In more detail, 

Ds = D − N −1 ∑ 

> α

Zα is the non-disordered superfluid density D reduced by the spectral weight of the phase excitations each of which has an energy Eα and comes with an effective dipole 

Zα = E−1

> α

[∑

> i

2Jμi ∆μϕiα 

]2

(3.39) The regular contribution in Eq. (3.38) is given by the sum of all individual phase excitations 

σreg (ω) = e2π

2N

∑

> α

Zα (δ(ω + Eα) + δ(ω − Eα)) (3.40) amounting to the Goldstone mode. As shown in Ref. [62], the crucial ingredient that renders the Goldstone mode optically active is the disorder-induced inhomogeneity of 

Jμi , see Fig.3.16. This can be understood by examina-tion of Eq. (3.39): for a homogeneous superfluid stiffness, 

Jμi = Jμj = J, the summation extends over all gradients giving the total phase gradient, that equals to zero for periodic boundary conditions, and hence Zα = 0 .To make a connection between the model and σ+1 of the experiment is essentially reduced to the problem of finding the particular form of the inhomogeneity. A sim-ple approach is the so-called diluted XY -model with a binomial distribution P (Jij ) = (1 −p)δ(Jij −J)+ pδ (Jij )

with J > 0, i.e. a for a given p ∈ [0 , 1] we find (1 − p)

of the connections to have a coupling constant Jij = J,while p links are not superconducting as Jij = 0 . For a particular choice of disorder parts of the lattice will seg-regate into superconducting islands disconnected from the percolative superconducting path. If now a phase 110 

gradient occurs over such an island, a charge inbalance will form 91 between two ends of the islands effectively 91 Which becomes clear by remember-ing that the charge-carrier number is the conjugated variable of the phase, see Sec. 3.1.1 

turning it into an optically active nano antenna. In the simple binomial approach, the problem of meeting experiment and theory is reduced to set the energy scale of the model J and the value of disorder p. We will now see, that we can infer a solid approximation of J from the experimental data. The Hamiltonian under consid-eration, Eq. (3.35), describes a phase-only system, which can be described equivalently by a low-energy action 92 92 This low-energy action can be derived from a inter-acting Lagrangian by integrating-out the high-energy fields in analogy to Sec. 1.3, however, working with Grass-mannian rather than simple Heisenberg fields [118]. 

for constant Jij = J [118] 

SHP = 12

ˆ

dωd k

[

−Jk2 + 116 Jξ 20

ω2

]

|θ(k, ω )|2 (3.41) where ξ0 is the typical length scale over which the dis-crete lattice-HHP is valid. The dispersion of the phase 

Figure 3.16: Sketch of the optical response of an array of Josephson junction, modeled as in Eq. (3.32). Here the arrows represent the local spins on the array sites, con-nected by springs representing the local stiffnesses Jij .To visualise its inhomogeneity, we set the arrow length proportional to the strength of the local stiffness and com-pare the spin orientation before (dark) and after (light) the photon irridation. In the clean case, panel (a), the phase modes are decoupled from the transverse electro-magnetic field, so the spins preserve their orientation (i.e. the phase of the order parameter is unchanged) and the radiation is not absorbed. On the other hand in the disordered case, panel (b), the spins respond to the incoming radiation with a local change of their relative direction that is larger when the system has lower phase rigidity (i.e. lower local Jij ). This leads to an inelastic response which absorbs part of the incoming radiation. Goldstone modes 111 

Figure 3.17: Excessive sub-gap conductivities σ+1 (ν)

(symbols) extracted from the optical data and σreg (ν)

(lines) calculated within the diluted XY model for J =0.9 cm −1 and a dilution p = 0 .17 . The inset of (a) com-pares temperature evolution of σreg (ν) shown in the other panels in detail. 

field θ(k, ω ) is obtained via the Euler-Lagrange formal-ism as 

ωk = 4 Jξ 0|k| (3.42) which is a ordinary sound-wave like dispersion and sets the typical energy scale of the Goldstone modes. In a disordered system without translational invariance, the modes will have a characteristic finite momentum ξ0 ¯|k| ∼ 

1 so that Eq. (3.42) simplifies to 

¯ω ∼ 4J (3.43) The strongest absorption is found at the lowest temper-ature at around 3.6 cm −1 so that we set J = 0 .9 cm −1

as starting point for the numerical calculations of σreg (ν).Although this approximation may appear somewhat crude, it reproduces the experimental situation surprisingly well as we will discuss below. Far from criticality p < p c the temperature evolution of J can be computed within the model Eq. 3.35. To compare σ+1 (ν) and σreg (ν) for a given temperature, σreg given in units of e2/ℏ, is mul-tiplied with a dimensionless factor α that defines an effective thickness d = e2/(ℏασ dc ) required to convert the 2D conductivity into a 3D one measured in the ex-periment. For the sample under study, we have σdc =3802 (Ωcm) −1 and d = 0 .64 /α nm which defines a length scale of the order of the lattice spacing as expected for a 2D →3D conversion. The result is shown in Fig. 3.17. 112 0 1 2 3 4 50.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00       

> 0123456
> 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 (b)
> P(
> i
> /
> 0
> )
> i
> /
> 0
> (a)
> P(J
> ij
> /J )
> J
> ij
> /J

Figure 3.18: Probability distributions (not normal-ized) of ∆ and Jij calculated for a granular supercon-ductor with a Gaussian distribution of grain diameters and a resistance ratio RN /R q = 0 .01 . Note that the dis-tribution of couplings Jij resembles the simple binomial distribution used to calculate the solid lines in Fig. 3.17 

The best agreement is obtained for a dilution p = 0 .17 

and α = 5 .5. The agreement between theory and ex-periment is remarkable: both the temperature and fre-quency dependence of σ+1 are accurately captured by the model. The agreement between theory and experiment and hence the interpretation in terms of the Goldstone mode can be justified even further by an indirect use of the inductive response σ2(ν) via the penetration depth 

λ. As done earlier in this work, see Eq. (3.16), we can relate J and λ in appropriate units via 

J[K] = 0 .62 × d[] 

λ2[( μm) 2] (3.44) For J = 0 .9 cm −1 ˆ=1 .29 K and α = 5 .5 we have an effec-tive thickness of d = 1 .6 leading to λ = 0 .88 μm. From analysis of the inductive response, we find λ = 1 .05 μmfor this sample, see Fig. 3.10, in very good agreement with the value predicted for the particular choice of α.Consequently, p is the only remaining free parameter of the entire model strongly speaking in favor of our inter-pretation of σ+1 in terms of Goldstone modes σreg .What may strike surprising is the series of rather crude approximations and assumptions, yet leading to a re-markable agreement between theory and experiment. For the sake of persuasiveness, the equivocally simple bino-mial distribution P (Jij ) should be examined in more detail aiming for a justification within the particular The effect of magnetic sub-gap bands? 113 

context of granular superconductors. The system that comes closest to granular Al is a disordered 3D network of coupled superconducting spheres with a distribution of radii where global superconductivity emerges in a per-colative manner studied in Ref. [67]. This model predicts a broad distribution P (∆ /∆0) with ∆0 the bulk value and a shape depending on the number of broken links measured by the normal-state resistance RN normalized to the quantum resistance Rq = h/ 4e2. For the sam-ple under study, we find RN /R q = 0 .01 and the corre-sponding distribution P (∆ /∆0) takes a form displayed in Fig. 3.18(a) [119]. To translate P (∆ /∆0) into the de-sired P (Jij /J 0) (with J0 being the stiffness of the bulk) we assume Jij = (∆ i + ∆ j )/2, see Fig. 3.18(b). Surpris-ingly, the distribution is sharply peaked at Jij /J 0 = 1 

in close resemblance with the simple binomial distribu-tion considered in our analysis. Understanding the tails as subordinate corrections, what remains, is a profound microscopic justification of our above simple model based on the shell-effect in granular Al. 

# 3.6 The effect of magnetic sub-gap bands? 

When we introduced superconductivity of granular Al we highlighted the existence of localized spins in gran-ular Al as evident from MR and μSR studies and, in striking similarity to unconventional superconductors, pointed towards the possibility of a nontrivial interplay of superconducting pairing and spin-flip scattering. Al-though the appearance of the superconducting dome in granular Al can be explained by competing mechanisms, namely the shell effect and suppressed phase coherence, without referring to unconventional pairing or nearby magnetic ordering, for the sake of completeness, a pos-sible mechanism for the sub-gap absorption related to spin-flip scattering should be carefully excluded. Indeed, soon after BCS Abrikosov and Gor’kov (AG) have shown in seminal works [19, 20, 21], that super-conductivity is strongly affected by magnetic impurities. Although the Anderson theorem guarantees a strong ro-bustness of superconductivity against potential scatter-114 

ing, due to the time-reversal symmetry breaking nature of spin-flip scattering the Anderson theorem is escaped. AG realized that for a certain amount of magnetic im-purities the threshold of absorption is pushed below 2∆ 

and can vanish although superconductivity persists 93 .93 At this point, we again stress that the superconducting or-der parameter ψ is   

> not a priori the same entity as the energy gap ∆

In Sec. 1.5 we introduced a powerful Green’s function approach to include pair-breaking effects resulting, e.g., from spin-flip scattering off paramagnetic impurities. We can here use the versatile and straight formalism de-veloped recently [8] to test various scenarios of sub-gap bands that may develop in presence of impurities. The basic idea is that transitions between sub-gap bands or transitions into the quasiparticle continuum become pos-sible at low energies, which, in contrast with the BCS DOS, may enhance the low-energy conductivity. The bare existence of a sub gap band, however, does not a pri-ori guarantee additional absorption channels restricted to sub-gap energies, which is obvious from the general form of the conductivity Eq. (1.52) (see Sec. 1.5) 

ˆσ(ω) = πe 2ns

m δ(ω)

− σ0

2ω

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dE

{

tanh E − ℏω

> 2

2kBT

[G+G− 

> 1

− iF +F −

> 2

]

− tanh E + ℏω

> 2

2kBT

[(G−)∗G+1 + i(F −)∗F +2

]}

where the integrated DOS ( G± 

> 1

) is relevant for ˆσ.To test the above idea, we infer the matrix Green’s func-tion ˇg by solving the Usadel equation Eq. (1.42) 

iE [ˆ τ3 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˇg] − ∆[ˆ τ1 ⊗ ˆσ0, ˇg] + i[̂ Σ, ˇg] = 0 

(see Sec. 1.5) with the self-energy term 

i[̂ Σ, ˇg] = − iτs

ˆτ2 ⊗ ˆσ0

sin 2 θ

1 + ξ4 + 2 ξ2 cos 2 θ

for various pair breaking parameters τs and explicitly keeping ξ̸ = 0 to unlock the center of impurity band from the continuum onset 94 . Figure 3.19(a,b) displays 94 where it resides in the AG limit broad-ening the coherence peaks as, e.g., dis-cussed in Sec. 2.3 of this work. 

the DOS for two realizations of a sub-gap band with 

ξ = 0 .5 and 0.9 and different values of pair breaking pa-rameters τs. For ξ = 0 .5 the band is located completely The effect of magnetic sub-gap bands? 115 

Figure 3.19: Various realizations and strengths of sub-gap bands (a,b) and to corresponding σ1(ν)

spectra (c,d) together with experimental data (sample 

ρdc = 263 μΩcm, Tc = 2 .78 K at 1.8 K). No combination of parameters determining the position and size of the sub-gap band can equally fit both the excessive absorption at low energies and the BCS-like part of the experimental data. 

inside the gap, grows as τs∆ is reduced and merges with the continuum below τs∆ ≈ 6. In the other case, ξ = 0 .9,there is no hard gap and the DOS is finite even at 0 (or more precisely E = EF ). The corresponding spectra of (normalized) σ1(ν) are displayed in the panels (c,d) together with the experimental data for a granular Al sample with a pronounced sub-gap absorption. While, indeed, the modified DOS gives rise to an enhancement of σ1 at low energies, no combination of parameters can properly fit the strong rise and, at the same time, main-tain the BCS like shape at higher energies. Also in the AG limit, these two requirements cannot be met simul-taneously, as can be inferred from the plots of Sec. 2.3. In conclusion, the spin-flip scattering found in granular Al can certainly be ruled out as origin of the sub-gap absorption discussed in this work. 116 

# 3.7 Outlook 

The results of this work present a conclusive answer to the longest-standing question associated with supercon-ductivity in granular Al: what shapes the superconduct-ing dome? Yet they also add new questions which, to-gether with other open problems, hopefully trigger a ex-perimental continuation. In this work we presented a conclusive and fully con-sistent scenario, attributing the enhancement of Tc be-yond the bulk value to quantum confinement and the shell effect. An independent confirmation of the shell effect could be done by means of scanning tunneling mi-croscopy (STM) similar to what has been done on in-dividual Sn and Pb nano islands [73]. The differential conductance into single Al nanograin with various inter-grain coupling strengths would provide valuable insights in how the local pairing amplitude ∆ is affected, espe-cially on the HR side, where Tc is already suppressed by phase fluctuations. In addition, STM measurements could provide further insights to possible modifications of the DOS caused by localized spins, e.g. sub-gap bands or exotic so-called Yu-Shiba-Rusinov bound states [120, 121, 122] beyond the accessibility of optical probes. In addition to the fundamental questions raised above                                 

> Figure 3.20: Pro-posal for the superconducting domes of granular Al with different grain diameters. The two domes in the front (3 nm and 2 nm grains, labeled ’SC’) with amaxi-mum Tcof 2.2 K and 3. K, respectively, are experimentally established. The two domes in the back (labeled ’?’) with an even higher
> Tcenhancement are envisioned the-oretically for grain diameters less than 2 nm.

concerning the presently established phenomenology of 2 nm Al grains, another important open problem widens this framework further: based on the nature of quantum confinement, one should expect the shell effect to be even more pronounced for grains which are smaller than the ones studied so far. Following the route employed to create 2 nm grains, Al evaporated on substrates held at temperatures between 77 and 4.2 K should consequently yield yet smaller grains. Indeed it was shown [123, 124] that for Al evaporated onto substrates held at 4.2 K an increase up to at least Tc =4.5 K can be achieved. Al-though Ref. [123, 124] neither give normal-state resistiv-ity values nor grain sizes nor seek optimization thereof, it can be seen as strong evidence for an even stronger Tc en-hancement analogous to the one discussed above. Based on Ref. [123], additional superconducting domes similar to the ones sketched in Fig. 3.20 can be envisioned. On the one hand, the smaller the grain, the stronger the electronic quantum confinement becomes. On the other hand, with decreasing diameter, the volume-to-surface ratio decreases and the coupling between grains could be reduced. Whether the resulting phase fluctuations im-pede the enhancement of Tc by overcompensation of the shell effect is an open question of fundamental interest that experiments so far were not able to answer. Another set of open questions worth dedicated stud-          

> Figure 3.21: Apossible extended phase diagram based on actual mea-surements (faint) discussed in this work, see Fig. 3.11 and Sec. 3.4.

ies is related to the superconducting energy scales (and, thus, the phase diagram) at resistivities higher than in this work, see Fig. 3.21. The appearance of a pseudogap on the HR side is a natural consequence of the phase-driven nature of the transition, yet also deserves a closer examination. This would include systematic studies with samples far on the HR side with a resistivity of several 1000 μΩcm in approach of the Mott insulating regime. In particular interest are the questions whether the pseudo-gap remains smoothly connected to the superconducting gap, how the temperature T ∗, where it closes, evolves and if it exists also in samples, which do not show a full superconducting transition even in the T = 0 limit. Arelated question is whether even weaker coupling pushes 

∆ to higher and higher values or if limiting mechanisms exist imposing a constraint on the shell-effect induced growth. Finally, another open question is whether similar effects can be found in nanograins of conventional supercon-ductors other than Al. A cryogenic STM study on in-dividual Sn nano particles showed drastic variations of the single-particle gap that were interpreted in terms of the shell effect [73], but since these nano particles were isolated, they did not involve a macroscopic supercon-ducting condensate. However, previous work on Sn films [123], though much less systematic than those on Al, sug-gests that similar phenomena can also enhance Tc of Sn substantially beyond the bulk value of 3.7 K. 4. 

# Experimental studies on the Heavy Fermion metal CeCoIn 5 

> Bring den Vorschlaghammer mit Bring a sledgehammer, when you come over tonight, and we’ll smash everything to pieces. Wenn du heute Abend kommst Dann hauen wir alles kurz und klein
> Element of Crime

In this chapter, we present measurements of the dynami-cal and transport conductivity of the heavy fermion (HF) metal CeCoIn 5 at THz energies. We start the discus-sion to the rich phenomenology of CeCoIn 5 in Sec. 4.1 with an introduction to the the mid-T Kondo- and low-

T Heavy-Fermion (HF) regimes, focusing on the exper-imental search for quantum-critical phenomena and the controversial discussion of their origin. Closing with look at previous IR studies, we then proceed to the discussion of the HF electrodynamics at THz energies. In Sec. 4.3 we turn to the dc resistivity ρdc (T ) and the dynamical response σ1 + iσ 2, we parametrize within the general-ized Drude-model (GDM), Sec. 4.2. The GDM analysis reveals a strong T - and ν-dependence of the complex re-sistivity ρ = σ−1, and hence identifies the typical energy scale of the heavy quasiparticles (QP) at the studied hν 

and kB T ranges. Section 4.4 provides the ground for dis-cussing the QP effective-mass enhancement m∗/m b and relaxation rate Γ∗ within Landau’s Fermi-liquid (FL) the-ory, and makes a connection between the FL selfenergy 

Σ( ν, T ) and the QP renormalization function Z(ν, T ) on the one side and the memory function M (ν, T ) of the GDM on the other. We introduce the hidden FL model which, as it turns out by close examination of Z−1 and 

Γ∗ in Sec. 4.5, provides an interpretation of the optical response and previously reported thermodynamic non-FL properties. In Sec, 4.6, we study the scaling-behavior of 

m∗(ν, T )/m b and finish with an outlook in Sec. 4.7. 120 

# 4.1 A walk-through introduction to CeCoIn 5

A list set out in attempt to characterize the physics of CeCoIn 5 reads like a who-is-who of condensed-matter concepts whose importance to the field of modern solid state physics can hardly be overestimated. What is more, a notable amount of these concepts is essentially found on the simple fact that each Ce 3+ ion has a single 4 f elec-tron with unpaired spin. Depending on thermal energy, the conduction electrons of CeCoIn 5 behave as a simple Drude metal, display the Kondo effect, hybridize with local moments and forming a coherent Heavy-Fermion (HF) state, and eventually condense into an unconven-tional d-wave superfluid which, presumably, hides a quan-tum critical point at T = 0 and contains a Fulde-Ferell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state close to the upper critical fields [125]. Retracing the ρdc (T ) curve sketched in Fig. 4.1, in what follows we will focus on the normal-conducting states above Tc = 2.3 K and concentrate on the HF regime where energies kB T and hν are of the same or-der 95 setting out the field for the experimental search for 95 A convenient (approximate) con-version between energies reads      

> 1 K ˆ=100 μeV ˆ=1.5 cm −1
> ˆ=20 GHz

quantum critical behavior within this work. 

4.1.1 Metallic and Kondo regimes 

Starting at room temperature, the dc transport resistiv-ity of CeCoIn 5 (see the sketch in Fig. 4.1) is reduced as temperature decreases exhibiting ordinary metallic prop-erties. Here, ρdc is mainly governed by phonon scatter-ing. This changes drastically at intermediate temper-atures ∼ 150 K, where ρdc starts to rise again, i.e. asecond scattering with an opposite temperature depen-dence as phonon appears. The anomalous behavior is at-tributed to an interaction between uncompensated spins of electrons localized to the Ce 3+ 4f shells 96 and the 96 the notion of aatomic shell inside of a metal may ir-ritate, yet it is avalid approximation due to the small vol-ume of the atomic Ce 4f shell leaving them basically intact even in a solid. 

conduction electrons giving rise to a certain scattering process contributing to ρdc . This mechanism was sug-gested by Kondo [126] in attempt to describe the pe-culiar resistivity minimum of simple metals doped with magnetic ions. Using a diagrammatic approach, Kondo has shown that, if one goes beyond 1. order perturba-tion theory, the exchange scattering via an intermedi-ate virtual state has leading to a log-T growth of ρdc as A walk-through introduction to CeCoIn 5 121 

temperature goes down. While this picture captures the resistance minimum, it also predicts a troublesome diver-gence in the T → 0 limit. However, there is an elegant escape to this caveat: As temperature is reduced, the ex-change interaction increases and tends to the formation of Kondo-singlets, i.e. a bound state of an conduction-and f electron with antiparallel spins effectively remov-ing the local moments from the system. Somewhat sur-prisingly, Kondo’s ideas can also be applied to the dense lattice of ’impurities’ in inter-metallic rare-earth com-pounds with unpaired 4 f or 5 f electrons interacting via a RKKY-type 97 interaction [127, 128]. In such systems, 97 originally formu-lated by Ruderman, Kittel, Kasuya, and Yosida for nuclear-spin exchange via the conduction sea. 

as for instance CeCoIn 5, the flattening crosses over to a massive reduction of resistivity at even lower temper-atures, as schematically displayed in Fig. 4.1. The rea-son lies in the antiferromagnetic interaction between the spins that tends to magnetic ordering at low tempera-tures. The emergent translational symmetry of the spin lattice ensures momentum conservation and elastic scat-tering (while the Kondo-scattering off disordered spin lattice or magnetic impurities does not conserve momen-tum and hence enhances resistivity). The massive reduc-tion of resistivity due to coherent scattering is, however, challenged by a strongly enhanced effective mass of the conduction electrons coining the name heavy-fermion. The hybridization between the f states and the conduc-tion band leads to a band- or hybridization gap which, depending on the Fermi energy, leaves behind either a Kondo insulator or heavy-fermion metal as low-T ground states. In case of the latter, we can imagine the emer-gence of ’heaviness’ lying in the flatness of the band 98 98 Remember that the inverse curvature of the band defines the effective mass. 

or, more from the quantum mechanical point of view, in the indiscernibility of electrons: Before Kondo-singlet formation sets in, we deal with f -electron states which are strongly localized in space (and, from the transport perspective, can be though of having a infinitely high mass), and delocalized conduction states with a (light) band mass. Once having formed a Kondo singlet, the constituents loose their former identities to some extent, and, the f -electron has a finite probability to find itself in a conduction state and vice versa. Consequently, the 

f -electrons merge into the Fermi sea, however, at the ex-pense of a heavy (yet not infinite) masses. Or, looking at the problem from the other side, the light conduction 122 

electrons acquire a finite probability to occupy a f -state and become localized letting them appear to slow down as due to an enhanced effective mass. 

Figure 4.1: Schematic phase diagram and dc re-sistivity of CeCoIn 5 as functions of temperature and magnetic field. Starting at room temperature, the system is a uncorrelated Drude-metal, crosses at ∼150 K to the regime of Kondo scattering, before it enters the coher-ent heavy fermion state at Tcoh . ≈ 40 K and eventually becomes superconducting below Tc = 2 .3 K. As function of magnetic field, superconductivity is suppressed mono-tonically to zero at Hc2 = 5 T and CeCoIn 5 turns into a FL at low temperatures. Above the SC dome and the dashed line demarcating a dimensional crossover 3D →

2D the system is a non-FL. The location of the QCP (contradicting proposals based on different experimental techniques are depicted as red stars) as well as the nature of the non-FL state are under heavy debate at the time of writing. 

4.1.2 Heavy-Fermion state and quantum criticality 

The HF state in CeCoIn 5 has a number of properties, that cannot be explained within the framework of canon-ical FL theory: The electrical resistivity is linear in tem-perature [129], the electronic component of specific heat varies logarithmically as function of temperture [130], A walk-through introduction to CeCoIn 5 123 

fractional T -powerlaws of the spin susceptibility [131] and nuclear spin-lattice relaxation time [132]. CeCoIn 5

does not order magnetically down to lowest temperatures in contrast with the closely related isovalent CeRhIn 5

[129]. This compound has an antiferromagnetic ground state below 3.8 K which can be suppressed by pressure terminated at a QCP separating the AFM state from an pressure-induced superconducting one. Sidorov et al. 

noted that applying pressure to the Rh-compound is sim-ilar to replacing Rh by Co and, from the other perspec-tive, CeCoIn 5 is located near an AFM instability reached by slightly negative pressure [129]. While applying neg-ative pressure to suppress superconductivity is more of a theoretical tuning knob, a more viable way are mag-netic fields. At around Hc2 = 5 T, superconductivity ceases, however, not giving way to a magnetically or-dered phase, but a FL at low and non-FL at elevated temperatures as schematically shown in Fig. 4.1. From scaling behavior of the specific heat at Hc2 and above as well as resistivity measurements, Bianchi et al. con-cluded a field-induced QCP near Hc2 [125]. They further argued, that the anomalous non-FL properties are con-sistent with theoretical predictions for AFM spin fluctu-ations, yet a AFM ordering is less favorable than a super-conducting ground state. The picture of an AFM QCP and the intimate relation between AFM fluctuations and non-FL behavior was later on substantiated by Ronning 

et al. observing a logarithmically diverging specific heat and T 2-coefficient of the resistivity near Hc2 [133]. Do-nath et al. employed thermal-expansion measurements to discriminate between the conventional spin-density wave (SDW) and unconventional Kondo-breakdown ( lo-cal QCP) mechanisms characterized by 3D- or 2D-type fluctuations, respectively [134]. The study revealed a di-mensional crossover 3D → 2D with increasing tempera-ture (dashed line in Fig. 4.1) signaling a peculiar change in criticality, yet also supporting the view of an SDW mechanism and AFM QCP. This scenario for quantum criticality, however, is not free of contradictions: Hall ef-fect [135] and thermal-expansion studies [136] located the QCP at fields inside the superconducting dome at around 4 K, resistivity measurements with the current applied along the c-axis at 1.5-3 T [137] and, oddly enough, mea-surements of the Grüneisen ratio as most precise probe 124 

for quantum criticality strongly suggest a zero-field QCP [138]. In the same way the location of the QCP is unclear, the reasoning concerning conventional or unconventional criticality becomes questionable and, as of yet, the na-ture of the quantum criticality in CeCoIn 5 remains an unsolved puzzle which to solve is apparently an experi-mental and intellectual challenge. 

4.1.3 A brief review of optical studies on CeCoIn 5

At the time of writing, comparably little is known about the charge carrier dynamics of CeCoIn 5 in the normal state 99 and how, if at all, the dynamical conductivity at 99 Previous GHz and THz stud-ies on CeCoIn 5    

> have explicitly addressed the su-perconducting state [139, 140, 141, 142]

finite temperatures can elucidate the zero-temperature QCP. Soon after the discovery of this compound, Singley 

et al. measured the IR-reflectance between 30 and few 1000 cm −1 by means of IR-spectroscopy on single crys-tals [143]. At room temperature, σ1(ν) shows the char-acteristic behavior of an uncorrelated Drude metal with a relaxation rate Γ/2π at a few 100 cm −1, see Fig. 4.2(a). Below 100 K, σ1(ν) starts to develop a notch situated in the Drude roll-off that develops into a strong suppression as T is reduced further. The appearence of the so-called hybridization gap can be seen as direct consequence of the hybridization between conduction and the 4 f elec-trons [144]. The essentially same result is found by Mena 

et al. revisiting the IR-conductivity of CeCoIn 5 in the broader context of the Ce M In 5 family, where M is ei-ther Co, Rh, or Ir [144]: A hybridization gap 2∆(10 K) ≈

600 cm −1 and signatures of heavy electrons as narrow tail at low frequencies stemming from intraband transitions. Problematic with both approaches is the low-frequency limit of 30 cm −1. While Singley observes the tail of the heavy-electrons response only marginally and recon-struct its low-frequency extrapolation by spectral-weight arguments, direct 100 optical evidence of the heavy elec-100 The presumably clearest demonstra-tion of the narrow Drude roll-off due to             

> slow heavy fermions was measured on
> U-based HF metals [145, 146, 147, 57] combining mi-crowave and THz spectroscopy

trons is completely missing from the spectra discussed in Ref. [144]. By means of extended-Drude analysis and spectral weight considerations, both works obtain the frequency dependence of the effective-mass ratio m∗/m B ,where mB is the (unknown) band mass, see Fig. 4.2(b). While m∗ does not show any frequency dependence above 

∼ 40 K, it strongly increases below 100 cm −1 towards lower frequencies and temperatures inside the HF regime A walk-through introduction to CeCoIn 5 125 

reaching values of 15-20 times the band mass. In a sim-ilar fashion, the electronic relaxation rate Γ acquires a strong frequency dependence. Regarding the open questions of quantum criticality and 

Figure 4.2: IR properties of CeCoIn 5 obtained from single-crystal reflectance measurements. (a) σ1(ν) for various temperatures. Below 50 K a hybridization gap opens reflecting the hybridization of conduction and f

electrons. (b) Mass enhancement m∗/m b as function of frequency and temperature. Towards low energies, the IR light probes the heavy electrons as evident from a enhancement by an factor ∼ 20 at lowest temperature. Data taken from Ref. [143]. 

non-Fermi-liquid behavior in CeCoIn 5, the above works and IR-spectroscopy in general can only contribute lit-tle. With the HF state constrained between Tc ≈ 3 Kand Tcoh ≈ 40 K, the corresponding energy range to ju-diciously search for signs of quantum criticality is 0.25 -3.5 meV, or in units of frequency, 2 - 30 cm −1 just below the range of above IR studies. The lack of studies cover-ing the quantum-critical regime may strike surprising, as these ranges of a few ten Kelvin and the corresponding thermal frequencies ℏω ∼ kB T of a few ten wavenum-bers can conveniently be covered with THz transmission spectroscopy, which however essentially depends on the availability of millimeter-sized high-quality films of not more than a few ten nanometer thickness. Only with the recent advances in the growth of large high-quality thin-film samples with sufficient chemical stability com-prehensive studies of CeCoIn 5 in the quantum critical energy regimes have become feasible substantially ad-vancing previous attempts [148]. 126 

# 4.2 Interludium I: Optics on cor-related systems 

The most paradigmatic approach to describe the response of a free electron gas to an incident light field was worked out by Paul Drude. Although the microscopic picture Drude had in mind does not withstand thorough scrutiny from the perspective of quantum mechanics, it serves as valid approximation for many systems, where the elec-trons are not correlated. In fact, it can be derived from the fully quantum mechanical Kubo formula as free-electron limit [149]. The original Drude model predicts the dy-namical conductivity to follow 

σD (ω) = iω 2

> p

4π

1

ω − i/τ D

. (4.1) Using this model, we assume a unique time scale τD , on which carriers scatter, and a constant mass m irrespec-tive of the frequency they are probed with. Physically, this implies that the response of the system ( σ) to an external perturbation at time t does not depend on the systems history at times t′ < t . While this assump-tion certainly is a valid model for the free-electron gas in simple metals, omitting these constraints will lead to a generalized Drude model (GDM), whose applicability extends beyond those simple metals to the realm of corre-lated ones. To construct a GDM, Götze and Wölfle [150] suggested to introduce a relaxation- or memory function defined as 

M (ω) = M1(ω) + iM 2(ω) = ωχ (ω)

χ0 − χ(ω) (4.2) where χ0 = N/m and χ(ω) is a correlation function, here explicitly for the current j(t)

χ(ω) = −i

> ∞

ˆ

> 0

dte iωt ⟨[j(t), j (0)] ⟩ (4.3) which is clearly non-local in time. Using the statistical-mechanics framework of Kubo [151], the correlation func-Interludium I: Optics on correlated systems 127 

tion is related to the conductivity via [150] 

σ(ω, T ) = −i e2

ω χ(ω, T ) + i ω2

> p

4πω 

= iω 2

> p

4π

1

ω + M (ω, T ) (4.4) where we have used Eq. (4.2) to link σ and M and ω2 

> p

=4πN e 2/m b contains the ordinary electron band mass mb.The resemblance to the original Drude model (4.1) is ob-vious: introducing the memory function M (ω, T ) amounts to replacing the single-valued relaxation rate 1/τ D by a complex and frequency dependent one. Expanding M (ω)

into real and imaginary parts, Eq.(4.4) can be cast into the standard form of the GDM [149, 152] 

σ(ω, T ) = ω2

> p

4π

1

−iωZ −1(ω, T ) + Γ( ω, T ) (4.5) where we defined the renormalization Z−1(ω, T ) ≡ 1 + 

M1(ω, T )/ω = m∗(ω, T )/m b [153] introducing the effec-tive mass m∗ and the (GDM) relaxation rate Γ( ω, T ) = 

M2(ω, T ). There are two remarkable things to note here. First, it is the frequency dependence of these two quanti-ties that constitutes the ’generalized’ description applica-ble to correlated electron systems beyond a simple Drude behavior. Second, the factor ω2 

> p

/4π has not changed dur-ing the above reasoning, i.e. it remains constant for a temperature independent carrier density N and is in-versely proportional to the band rather than the effec-tive mass. To access the functions Z(ω, T ) and Γ( ω, T ),we invert Eq. (4.5) and define the complex dynamical resistivity ρ(ω) = ρ1(ω) + iρ 2(ω) = σ−1(ω) leading to [149, 152] 

ρ1(ω, T ) = σ1(ω, T )

|σ(ω, T )|2 = 4πω2

> p

Γ( ω, T ) (4.6) 

−ρ2(ω, T ) = σ2(ω, T )

|σ(ω, T )|2 = 4πω ω2

> p

Z−1(ω, T ) (4.7) Loosely speaking, the above identifications suggest to in-terpret ρ1 as relaxation rate and ρ2/ω as effective mass. The problem here is two-fold. First, without knowledge of ωp these assignments are proportionalities instead of 128 

equalities. Second, it remains rather unclear, how these quantities should be interpreted in a physical context. In particular, it is not clear how to bring together the normal electrons in the Drude parameter ωp and the ap-parently non-Drude frequency dependence. To unwind this conceptual problem, we rearrange Eq. (4.5) such that we obtain the same functional form of the original Drude model [149, 152, 154] 

σ(ω, T ) = (ω∗ 

> p

)2

4π

1

−iω + Γ ∗(ω, T ) (4.8) and define the starred quasiparticle plasma frequency and relaxation rate 

(ω∗ 

> p

)2 = Z(ω, T )ω2 

> p

(4.9) 

Γ∗(ω, T ) = Z(ω, T )Γ( ω, T ) (4.10) The ingenious concept of quasiparticles (QP) as con-stituents of a conductor goes back to Landau’s theory of Fermi-Liquids we will examine in more detail in Sec. 4.4. To experimentally access the QP relaxation rate Γ∗ we invert Eq. (4.8) as before and obtain 

ρ1(ω, T ) = σ1(ω, T )

|σ(ω, T )|2 = 4π

[ω∗ 

> p

(ω, T )] 2 Γ∗(ω, T )= 4πω2

> p

Z−1(ω, T )Γ ∗(ω, T )(4.11) (4.12) where we have explicitly isolated the nontrivial frequency-and temperature dependence from ω∗ 

> p

. To remove ωp

from the right side of Eq. (4.12), we make usage of Eq. (4.7) and obtain eventually 

Γ∗(ω, T ) = ωσ 1(ω, T )

σ2(ω, T ) . (4.13) The importance of the above reasoning, especially the role of the renormalization Z, is hard to grasp at the first sight. In words, the QP relaxation rate Γ∗ equals to the one of the GDM-Γ scaled with the renormaliza-tion factor. What rather appears as a semantic problem arising from different physical pictures, plays a substan-tial role for the question, whether or not we classify an Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 129 

electronic system as FL - a big deal for more elaborate interpretations in the context of strongly-correlated elec-tron theories, as we will examine later in this work. 

# 4.3 Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 

The samples under study are two 70 nm thick films of CeCoIn 5 deposited via molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) [155] on a dielectric 10 ×5×0.5 mm 3 MgF 2 substrate both grown and measured in 2013 and 2015, respectively 101 . 101 Further in-formation on sample growth and -characteristics are found in Sec. A.1.3 

As the experimental outcome for both samples concern-ing the temperature and frequency dependencies is very similar, in what follows, we will discuss just one on be-half of both. We start our discussion of the experimen-tal results with the electrical transport resistivity ρdc (T )

displayed in Fig. 4.3(a). The overall shape resembles the previously reported ones, see Panel (b) for a comparison to a measurement of Malinowski [137], clearly displaying the regimes of metallic behavior and incoherent Kondo-scattering, the coherent HF state, and, eventually, super-conductivity. Before we can concentrate on the ρdc (T ) of the HF state and, subsequently, examine the relaxation rate, we should quantify the phononic contribution to the resistivity. Generally, the low-T behavior of ρdc (T ) is expected to be governed by electronic scattering, yet it might be flawed by other processes such as phonon-scattering. Following Matthiessen´s rule 102 , it is sometimes possi- 102 stating that impurity, phonon, electro-electron etc. relaxation rates linearly add up         

> τ−1=τ−1imp +τ−1Ph +τ−1ee +...

ble to single out the electron-electron scattering by sub-tracting the phononic background inferred from a re-lated compound where the considered scattering does not take place. In case of CeCoIn 5, for instance, the electronic scattering can be isolated by subtracting the phononic background of the non-magnetic LaCoIn 5 ana-logue. Here, we follow the procedure of Malinkowski et al. and make use of their transport measurements [137]: Figure 4.3(b) shows ρdc (T ) of CeCoIn 5 studied in this work as well as of CeCoIn 5 and metallic LaCoIn 5 single crystals. Although the shape of CeCoIn 5 thin-film and single-crystal ρdc curves is slightly different and Tc of the former is reduced by a few 100 mK, we can match the high-temperature part, where phonon scattering is most 130 

dominant, by scaling of the single-crystal curve with a factor 1.18. Figure 4.3(a) displays, again, the CeCoIn 5

resistivity as measured and with the phononic contri-bution, i.e. the scaled LaCoIn 5 resistivity, subtracted. Above the coherent HF regime, the contribution from electron-electron scattering rapidly decays, while below barely no change upon phonon removal is found. Al-though comparing thin-film and single-crystal measure-ments should always be done with care 103 , here we can 103 If in doubt, whether physics of an electronic system may substantially change when con-fined to thin films, the interested reader is invited to cast a glance at the previous chapters. 

safely regard the phonon-scattering contributions as sub-ordinate in the T -range of interest and neglect them from now on. In a previous work, Sidorov and Nakatsuji studied how the exponent α in ρdc (T ) ∝ ρ0 + AT α behaves as function of pressure and Ce → La substitution [129, 130]. For pure CeCoIn 5 without applied pressure, ρdc follows 10 20 30 40 50              

> 0100 200 300
> 010 20 30 40 50
> 10 100 0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00
> (b) (c)
> Resistivity  ( cm)
> dc(CeCoIn
> 5)
> dc(CeCoIn
> 5)-
> dc(LaCoIn
> 5)
> Fit
> (a)
> T
> coh
> Resistivity  ( cm)
> LaCoIn
> 5
> (Mal inowski et al .)
> CeCoIn
> 5
> (Mal inowski et al .)
> CeCoIn
> 5(thi swork)
> x1.18
> Tem perature (K)
> Exponent

Figure 4.3: Decomposition of transport resistivity in CeCoIn 5 (a) total resistivity and magnetic contri-bution obtained after subtraction of the phononic con-tribution inferred from the non-magnetic metal LaCoIn 5

(data taken from Ref. [137]) shown in panel (b). In order to meet measurements on thin films and single crystals, the resistivity of the latter were scaled with a factor 1.18. In the coherent HF regime, phonon scattering barely con-tributes to ρdc and thus can safely be neglected. The solid line in (a) is a fit that interpolates between the critical 

T −linear HF and the log −T single-ion Kondo regimes. The dashed line is a simple power law ρdc ∝ T α. (c) Exponent α as function of the temperature, up to which the simple power-law was fitted. Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 131 

a T -linear behavior up ∼20 K which is viewed as man-ifestation of NFL behavior and a first hint of a zero-temperature QCP in this compound. Instead of the pre-viously reported T -linear behavior the sample shown in Fig. 4.3 displays sub-linear behavior with an exponent 

∼ 0.75 up to around 20 K. One problem of this analysis is associated with the the mid-T single-ion Kondo regime and the dominant log-T behavior of ρdc . Depending on which upper limit Tmax is imposed to the fit, the obtained exponent α varies rather drastically. Figure 4.3(c) traces the powerlaw exponent α for Tc < T max < 300 K. Around 

Tcoh we find α to be suppressed by the nearby Kondo regime resulting in a low value of ∼0.5. Below ∼20 K the exponent tends to saturate to values between 0.7 and 0.75 before it drops again due to superconducting fluc-tuations. Irrespective of Tmax we, on the one side, never reach the previously reported T -linear behavior. On the other side however, both the reduction of Tc compared to the value found for single crystals, Tc = 2 .3 K, and the anomalous sub-linear T dependence was observed previ-ously upon gradually replacing magnetic Ce 3+ with iso-valent rare-earth (R) ions in Ce xR1−xCoIn 5 [156]. This effect was found to be strongest for non-magnetic Y 3+ 

substitution. Likewise, we attribute the sub-linear be-havior and reduced Tc to result from lattice defects which are common by-products of epitactical thin-film growth. A more elaborate way to cleanse the T -dependence of the non-FL from the one of the Kondo regime is an inter-polation model treating both regimes on equal footings. Such an interpolation that crosses to marginal Fermi liq-uid [157, 158] towards low temperatues has been sug-gested by Wölfle [159] reading 

ρdc (T ) = ρ0 + c0

T α′

(T 2 − T 2coh )α′/2

[

ln 

( T 2 + T 2coh 

T 2K

)] 2

(4.14) where TK is the Kondo temperature. A fit to this func-tional form is shown in Fig. 4.3(a) (blue line) giving α′ =1.08 − 1.2 depending on Tmax nicely captures the re-sistivity peak and comes close to the previous linear-T

behavior [129, 130]. Having demonstrated the subordi-nate role of phonon-scattering in the relevant tempera-ture range and the consistency with previous works, we now re-examine the commonly accepted NFL interpreta-132 

tion of CeCoIn 5 in the light of our optical measurements. 10 100 1000 10000 01x10 

> 4
> 2x10
> 4
> 3x10
> 4
> 30K
> 1 (
> -1 cm
> -1 )
> (cm
> - 1 )
> 8K

Figure 4.5: Spectra of σ1 measured at THz (this work) and IR frequencies taken from Ref. [160] resolving the fre-quency dependencies over several orders of magnitude. The hybridization gap is clearly resolved in 

σ1(ν) at 8 K. 

We now turn to the optical properties and display real and imaginary parts of the dynamical conductivity in Fig. 4.4 at various temperatures (spectra for the second sample are displayed in Fig. 4.6). At the highest temper-ature 150 K, the dissipative conductivity σ1(ν) does not show any discernible frequency dependence as expected for a normal metal with the relaxation rate Γ around 350 cm −1 at this temperature [160]. Consequently, we also barely find a significant contribution to the out-of-phase conductivity σ2(ν). Upon cooling to the maximum of ρdc at around 35 K, the flat metallic behavior of σ1(ν)

persists, the absolute values, however, shift to smaller values. This reduction amounts to ∼ 15% which is in ex-10      

> 4
> 2x10
> 4
> 3x10
> 4
> 4x10
> 4
> 5x10
> 4
> 8K
> cool i ng
> 1 (
> - 1 cm
> - 1 )
> 150K
> 010 20 30 40 50 5.0x10
> 3
> 1.0x10
> 4
> 1.5x10
> 4
> 2 (
> - 1 cm
> - 1 )
> (cm
> - 1 )
> 8K 40K

Figure 4.6: Spectra of σ1,2(ν) of a second sample. The overall behavior agrees with the sample discussed in the main text. 

cellent agreement with the increase in ρdc . We attribute this reduction in σ1 to the increased scattering between the conduction electrons and localized f -electrons. The values of σ2(ν) increase slightly, but remain close to zero upon approaching Tp. Upon further reduction of temper-ature, the system crosses over to the coherent HF state which is accompanied by the opening of a hybridization gap in the IR regime [143, 160] as displayed in Fig. 4.5. At THz frequencies, this gap causes a suppression of 

σ1(ν) in the high-frequency limit, while σ1(ν) tends to 0 10 20 30 2x10               

> 4
> 3x10
> 4
> 4x10
> 4
> 5x10
> 4
> 6x10
> 4
> 7x10
> 4
> 8x10
> 4
> 010 20 30 40
> 01x10
> 4
> 2x10
> 4
> 3x10
> 4(b)
> cool i ng 150 K
> 70 K
> 50 K
> 30 K
> 20 K
> 13 K
> 8K
> 3K
> 1 (
> -1  cm
> -1  )
> cool i ng
> (a)
> 2 (
> -1  cm
> -1  )
> Frequency (cm
> -1 )

Figure 4.4: Complex conductivity σ1(ν) + i σ2(ν) of CeCoIn 5 at various temperatures. (a) Between 150 and 30 K, σ1(ν) is reduced slightly in agreement with the be-havior of ρdc and shows a flat metallic behavior, which be-comes strongly frequency-dependent below 30 K. (b) σ2(ν)

acquires similar as σ1(ν) a discernible frequency depen-dence only below 30 K where the electrons become heavy. Measurements of the transport and dynamical conductivity 133 0 10 20 30 40 010 20 30 40 50 60            

> 150 K
> 100 K
> 70 K
> 50 K
> 30 K
> 20 K
> 13 K
> 10 K
> 8K
> 3K
> 1
> ( cm)  ~
> Frequency (cm -1)
> cooling

Figure 4.7: Real part ρ1(ν) of the complex resis-tivity at various temperatures as measure for the optical relaxation rate Γ( ν). Between 150 and 30 K, Γ is flat and acquires a frequency dependence only at lower tem-peratures in the HF state, where σ1(ν) evolves a strong Drude peak. 

.increase in the low-frequency limit following the suppres-sion of ρdc , phonon-, and electron-electron scattering. As the hybridization gap deepens, the decrease of σ1(ν) with increasing frequency becomes stronger and covers nearly one order of magnitude at the lowest temperature (3 K) in the spectral range studied. At the same time, σ2(ν)

also rises and acquires a frequency dependence shaping a broad peak that shifts towards lower frequencies and becomes more pronounced as temperature is reduced to 3 K. Figure 4.7 shows the optical relaxation rate Γ as func-tions of temperature and frequency obtained from the GDM model via Eq. (4.6). At 150 K, Γ does not vary with frequency within the studied spectral range, as ex-pected for a simple metal without electron-electron in-teractions. As temperature is reduced to around 30 K, 

Γ increases, but remains flat. This rise is attributed to enhanced scattering between conduction and localized 

f -electrons in the Kondo regime. At lower tempera-134 

tures, the HF state forms and we observe an emergent frequency-dependence of Γ. This can directly be seen as result of a increasing interaction between the carri-ers. We observe an increase of the frequency-dependence down to our lowest temperature. The overall trend is consistent with the flat dynamical conductivity with the Drude roll-off above the accessible THz range at high temperatures, and the opening of the hybridization gap and concomitant emergence of a narrow Drude peak of the heavy charge carriers. Towards higher frequencies, the THz data is smoothly connected to IR data [160], as depicted in Fig. 4.8. 10 100 05x10   

> 2
> 1x10
> 3
> Mena (2005)
> this work
> ( cm
> -1 )
> (cm
> - 1 )
> 8K 30K 100K

Figure 4.8: Spectra of ρs ∝ Γ measured at THz (rescaled, this work) and IR frequencies taken from Ref. [160] resolving the fre-quency dependencies over several orders of magnitude. 

# 4.4 Interludium II FL, non-FL, and hidden FL 

In his seminal work [161], Landau showed theoretically that slowly turning on the interaction in an initially non-interacting Fermi gas of electrons will transform the old ground state adiabatically into the a new one of the Fermi Liquid (FL) in the sense that the eigenstates of the former system remain intact, yet now acquire differ-ent energy. The occupied states will keep their quantum numbers (charge, spin, etc.), while the dynamic proper-ties (mass, relaxation rate, magnetic moment, etc.) are renormalized. The great value of this one-to-one cor-respondence is that one can maintain certain descrip-tions valid in the non-interacting Fermi gas (such as the Drude formula) also for interacting systems. This el-egant treatment, however, requires to abandon the no-tion of electrons (and holes) as entities carrying, e.g., the electrical current in favor of what is called Landau quasi-particles 104 (QP). Due to the possibility of precise theo-104 One should always keep in mind, that nature provides only one type of electron. In this sense, speaking of an quasiparticle-electron with, e.g., a mass m̸ =9.108 ... × 10 −34 kg can be misleading: it’s a simple electron that appears to have 

a mass other than 

m0 to make the equations simpler. 

retical predictions for transport- and optical properties, FL theory has become one of the experimentally most comprehensively scrutinized models for the low tempera-ture physics of correlated fermionic systems ranging from electrons in metals to 3He atoms above the superfluid phases. Optical spectroscopy and studies of the dynami-cal conductivity σ(ω) have turned out a particularly fer-tile testing ground for FL theory, as two of the central quantities of Landau QP, the renormalization Zqp and the relaxation rate (inverse lifetime) Γ∗

> qp

, can be accessed Interludium II FL, non-FL, and hidden FL 135 

via the effective mass enhancement parametrization of 

σ(ω) within the GDM as we will see below. Within FL theory, the energy contribution arising from the electron-electron interaction can be introduced in form of a self energy ΣFL , which at low energies and for k = 0 can be written 105 as as [162, 163, 164] 105 in units ℏ = 

> kB= 1

ΣFL (ω, T ) = 

(

1 − 1

Zqp 

)

ω − iZqp πT ∗

[ω2 + ( πT )2]

(4.15) with Zqp = (1 − ∂ΣFL /∂ω )−1 the renormalization fac-tor and the coherence temperature T ∗ ∼ ϵ∗

> F

, which for low energies uniquely sets energy scale for the physics of the Landau QP and which relates to the bare-electron Fermi energy ϵF = Z−1qp ϵ∗

> F

. On general grounds, the QP relaxation rate is defined as 

Γ∗ 

> qp

= −Zqp ImΣ FL . (4.16) Using the explicit form of the self energy, we obtain Lan-dau’s famous result 106 106 Note that the effect of impurity scattering and other scattering channels needs to be accounted for separately. 

Γ∗

> qp

(ω, T ) = 1

πT ∗

[ω2 + ( πT )2] (4.17) This can be compared to the optical relaxation rate Γ∗

obtained from the dynamical conductivity (see Sec. 4.2) 

Γ∗(ω, T ) = M2(ω, T )1 + M1(ω, T )/ω (4.18) 

= 231

πT ∗

[ω2 + (2 πT )2] (4.19) based on the explicit form of the memory function for a FL [162] 

M (ω, T ) = 

( 1

Z − 1

)

ω + 23

iZπT ∗

[ω2 + (2 πT )2] .

(4.20) displaying the same energy dependence as the QP re-laxation rate Γ∗

> qp

. The connection between the GDM quantities Γ∗ and Z−1 = 1 + M1(ω, T )/ω and the Lan-dau QP quantities Γ∗ 

> qp

and Z−1 

> qp

is only approximately known. As discussed by P. Allen [165], one has 136 

σ(ω) = iω 2

> p

4πω 

ˆ ∞−∞ 

dω ′ f (ω′) − f (ω′ + ω)

ω − Σtr (ω′ + ω + i0) + Σ tr (ω′ − i0) 

≈ ω2

> p

4πω 

1

−iω/Z (ω) + 2ImΣ tr (ω + i0) (4.21) where Z−1(ω) = 1 − Re[Σ tr (ω) − Σtr (0)] /ω . Here Σtr dif-fers from the single particle self-energy ΣFL (k, ω ) in two ways [159]: (1) it is an average over the Fermi surface; (2) the internal momentum summations are weighted ac-cording to the effectiveness of a collision process in relax-ing momentum. This weight function is ∝ q2 ∝ 1 − cos θ,where q is the momentum transferred in the process and 

θ is the scattering angle. It follows that Γ∗ = 2 r1Γ∗ 

> qp

,and Z−1 = r2Z−1qp , where r1,2 ≈ ⟨ q2⟩/k 2 

> F

are constants reflecting the fact that current dissipation involves fi-nite transfer of momentum q in QP scattering processes. On general grounds, it can take values from r1,2 ≪ 1

(predominantly forward scattering) to r1,2 ≈ 2 (predom-inantly backward scattering). We will not dwell on a model description of the angle dependence of QP colli-sions, which would be required to estimate the parameter 

r1,2, but will assume that r1,2 ≈ 1 as one can expect for a system with AFM fluctuations [159]. In what follows, we will ignore the factor 2 when discussing the energy dependence of Γ∗(ω, T ) (i.e. we set Γ∗ 

> qp

= Γ ∗) for the sake of simplicity. Also, we will henceforth make no dis-tinction between Z−1, Z−1qp , and m∗/m b.If scattering channels other than the one above can be excluded, the quadratic T - and ω-dependence of Γ∗ is arguably the most fundamental signature of a FL. The conceptual simplicity of this criterion is contrasted with the challenge to unambiguously verify Eq. (4.17) it in an experiment. The main reason is that well-defined Lan-dau QP exist only at temperatures extremely small com-pared to other electronic scales such as the bandwidth. Consequently, canonical FL behavior Eq. (4.17) appears - if at all - typically just at the scale of a few Kelvin and below. The demonstration of scattering according to Eq. (4.17) is therefore not only limited to low energies but also to clean metals (no impurities). Meeting these requirements in an optical experiment, however, is very challenging due to the high reflectivity of bulk samples Interludium II FL, non-FL, and hidden FL 137 

or low transmittivity of thin films complicated by the notorious problems of optical spectroscopy at cryogenic conditions. Not surprising, it took almost 60 years to unambiguously verify Eq. (4.17) for the case of Sr 2RuO 4

by means of IR spectroscopy [166]. Without doubt, mea-suring the ω dependence of Γ∗ is significantly more com-plicated than the T 2-dependence, which can be inferred from a simple resistivity measurement as ρdc (T ) is given by the imaginary part of the self energy [167] 

ρdc (T ) ∝ − ImΣ FL (0 , T ) = (πT )2

ZπT ∗ (4.22) and with Eq. (4.17) fully reflecting the T - dependence the QP relaxation rate 

Γ∗(T ) ∝ Zρ dc (T ) (4.23) as Z does not depend on T (and ω) for a FL. Instead of testing Eq. (4.17), a more accessible (yet less precise) criterion reads 

ρdc ∝

{

T α with α = 2 ↔ FL else ↔ non-FL (4.24) This criterion is actually so well-established, that linear-T has become a set phrase to characterize, e.g., the strange-metal phase of high-Tc cuprates [168]. HF sys-tems often show deviations of the ρdc ∝ T 2 behavior, although a consistent Fermi-liquid theory for HF sys-tems can be derived from the Kondo-lattice model [169]. Similar as for cuprates, the non-FL is typically regarded a finite temperature effect stemming from magnetic in-stabilities at a zero-temperature QCP [170]. On the one side, it is clear that the quadratic growth of Eq. (4.17) levels off once the mean free path falls be-low the inter-atomic distance 107 . The crossover from 107 This criterion is commonly expressed in terms of the Mott-Ioffe-Regel parame-ter kF ℓ = 1 , whereas conductors require a value above unity. 

a strange to a bad metal at a temperature TMIR ulti-mately sets the seal on well-defined Landau QP [171], and thus, signals the ultimate breakdown of FL behav-ior. On the other side, however, the temperatures at which the bad metal regime is entered are typically very high [172, 173]: In case of Sr 2RuO 4, the aforementioned prototypical FL system, TMIR ≈ 800 K while FL behav-ior according to (4.28) is observed up to TFL ≈ 20 K138 

[174]. Motivated by the huge discrepancy between TMIR 

and TFL in Sr 2RuO 4 and similar compounds, Deng et al. performed DMFT calculations on generic hole-doped Mott insulators resolving clear QP excitations surviving up to temperatures T ≈ TMIR [174]. Following this idea, Xu et al. demonstrated that the relaxation rate of these 

resilient QP obeys the T -square behavior up to temper-atures much higher than TFL , whereas ρdc (T ) deviates from a parabola above TFL [174]. This seemingly para-dox situation unwinds as ρdc (T > T FL ) no longer reflects 

Γ∗(T ) according to Eq. (4.23), because Z becomes a func-tion of T . Showing a FL-like relaxation rate yet anoma-lous transport coefficients as due to the T -dependence of Z, these resilient QP form a quantum liquid tellingly referred to as hidden FL [175, 154, 176, 177]. Indeed, in case of the prototypical correlated-electron system V 2O3,where the DMFT picture of the Mott insulator is known to provide an accurate picture, such a hidden FL was un-raveled from optical spectroscopy using the ω → 0 lim-its in the quasiparticle-interpretation of the GDM [154]. Furthermore, also for the Hund’s metal CaRuO 3 the QP relaxation rate follows a T 2 behavior up to several 10 K well above TFL = 1 .5 K (see the Supplementary Material of Ref. [154]) in support of the hidden FL scenario to hold beyond the DMFT picture of the doped Mott insulator. This offers a fascinating new perspective on interacting electron systems and arises a far-reaching question: Can we understand some the numerous non-FL systems as hidden FL 108 ? In the remainder of this chapter, we will 108 To avoid confu-sion we stress that a hidden FL composed from resilient QP is actually a special kind of non-FL and should clearly be distinguished from the canonical low-T  

> FL composed from Landau QP.

discuss the case of the HF metal CeCoIn 5 and, based on new measurements of the dynamical response and re-consideration of earlier experimental studies, answer this question affirmatively. 

# 4.5 CeCoIn 5 - a hidden Fermi Liq-uid 

The experimental status quo leaves little doubt that the HF state of CeCoIn 5 is not a canonical FL in zero and moderate magnetic fields < 5 T [130, 131, 132, 178, 125, 134, 133, 136, 129]. While the breakdown of canonical FL behavior is often intimately related to the vicinity to a quantum critical point, the experimental situation could, CeCoIn 5 - a hidden Fermi Liquid 139 

as of yet, not provide an answer to the fundamental ques-tion: if it is apparently not a FL, what kind of quantum liquid is it then? Despite several attempts to explain the anomalous non-FL properties by quantum-critical fluc-tuations, no consistent picture has been reached to date as discussed in Sec. 4.1.2. Significantly, the urgent ques-tions concerning the nature of the QCP as well as its lo-cation in the phase diagram are just two pieces of the en-tire CeCoIn 5 puzzle. Following the reasoning we outlined in Sec. 4.4, in what follows, we will examine the energy dependence of renormalization in CeCoIn 5 and demon-strate that the experimental anomalies find a ready ex-planation in the context of resilient QPs and a hidden FL. Figure 4.9 displays −ρ2(ν, T )/ν which we interpret as measure of the renormalization Z−1 = m∗/m b. The absence of frequency dependence of σ1(ν) at high tem-peratures implies that the real part of M (ν) is essentially zero for ν ≪ 350 cm −1 (compare also to Fig. 4.5) and 0 10 20 30 40           

> (b)
> 30 K
> 50 K
> 70 K
> 100 K
> 150 K
> 3K
> 8K
> 13 K
> 20 K
> Frequenc y (c m -1 )
> (a)

10 100 0123           

> dc extrap ol.
> 6.5 cm
> - 1
> 10.8 cm
> - 1
> 15 cm
> - 1
> 19.4 cm
> - 1
> 23.6 cm
> - 1
> 28 cm
> - 1
> 32.2 cm
> - 1
> 36.6 cm
> - 1
> 2 / ~ Z
> -1  (arb.  units)
> Tem perature (K)
> A(
> 0+)

Figure 4.9: Effective mass enhancement m∗/m b =

Z−1 as measured by −ρ2/ν versus (a) temperature and (b) frequency. Zero-frequency extrapolations Z−1(0) 

(stars) are estimated from fits to A [ν0 − ν]−γ via A, ν 0,and γ (solid lines). A strong energy dependence sets in at the crossover between Kondo and HF regimes, while absent at higher temperatures. 140 

therefore Z = 1 . We may then extract an approximate value for the plasma frequency 

ωp/2π = |2πcν/ϵ 0ρ2(150 K , ν )|1/2 ≈ 900 ± 400 THz 

which is about 3.7 ± 1.6 eV. The approximate nature of this value in mind, however, we restrict our discussion to the energy dependence of the mass enhancement rather than m∗(ν, T ) itself. With decreasing temperature and frequency, Z−1 rises strongly: at the lowest temperature by a factor of ∼3 within the studied spectral range, and by a factor of 12 at the lowest frequency between 3 K and the Kondo regime. Using the phenomenological ansatz 

A [ν0 − ν]−γ with A, ν 0, and γ being free parameters to model −ρ2(ν)/ν we can extrapolate the experimental to the transport limit. Figure 4.9 displays representative fits (red solid line) and the corresponding intersections with the dc-plane (red dots). The first important conclu-sion we can draw is the affirmation of CeCoIn 5 not being a canonical FL where Z is a constant with respect to T

and ν. The second one is that Z(T, ν ) will have a notable impact on the renormalized relaxation rate Γ∗ = ZΓ,which may help to elucidate the anomalous behavior of 

ρdc (T ).Figure 4.10 displays the QP relaxation rate 109 Γ∗(ν, T )109 We obtain ab-solute numbers for                          

> Γ∗using Eq. (4.13) as the (unknown) ωp
> cancels out. This also holds for the transport limit
> ρdc =4πω2
> p
> Γdc
> Zdc ρdc =4πω2
> p
> Zdc Γdc
> ρdc 4πω2
> p
> m∗
> mb
> =Γ∗
> dc
> where we apparently normalize ρdc to
> (4 π/ω 2
> p)m∗
> mb(rather than just m∗/m b)-the quantity we obtain from the measurement via
> σ2/(ω|σ|2)

(including the energy independent impurity-scattering contribution) calculated using Eq. (4.13) at finite fre-quencies and via ρdc (T )Z(ν → 0, T ) employing the dc-extrapolations. Starting with the dc limit (panel (a)), we observe a strong rise that due to the temperature de-pendence of Z−1 does clearly not reflect the sub-linear 

T -dependence of ρdc (T ). To the contrary, fitting a pow-erlaw Γ∗(T < 25 K) ∝ T α yields an exponent α =1.92 ± 0.09 close to the quadratic behavior of a genuine FL. The powerlaw behavior of Γ∗(T ) is also observed at finite frequencies ν ≤ 15 cm −1 ( ˆ= 22 K), see panels (b-d), with exponents slightly smaller than α = 2 as shown in the inset of panel (a). At higher frequencies, panel (e), the Kondo scattering adds a non-trivial contribution to 

Γ∗ spoiling a simple powerlaw behavior. Looking at the 

ν-dependence, see panels (f-j), we also observe powerlaw behavior Γ∗(ν) ∝ νβ with exponents β slightly smaller than 2, see the inset of panel (f), up to around 20 K. At higher temperatures, see panel (k), fits do no longer CeCoIn 5 - a hidden Fermi Liquid 141 0 10 20 30 40 020 40 60 

0 10 20 30 020 40 60 80 

0 10 20 30 0 10 20 30 40 

0 10 20 30 020 40 60 

020 40 60 

020 40 60 80 

0 10 20 30 020 40 60 80 

0 10 20 30 0 10 20 30 40       

> 010 20
> 123
> 0510 15
> 123

(b) (c )  

> ( cm -1 )
> 6.5

c m -1  

> a0

+ bT

Te m pe rat ure (K) 

> ( cm -1 )

10.8 c m - 1 

a0 + bT

(d)     

> 15. 2 c m -1
> a0+bT

Te m pe rat ure (K) 

(e ) 

> 36.6

c m - 1  

> 32.2

c m - 1  

> 28

c m - 1  

> 23.6

c m - 1  

> 19.4

c m - 1  

> ( cm -1 )
> 0

c m - 1   

> a0+bT

Te m pe rat ure (K) 

> dc
> dc  ( cm )

(a )

(f ) 

> ( cm -1 )

3K 

c 0 + d

(i) (h) (g) 

8K 

c 0 + d

> 13K

c 0 + d

> 16K

c 0 + d

(k) (j)  

> 20 K

c 0 + d

Fre que ncy (cm - 1 )    

> 30 K
> 25 K
> T(K)
> (cm - 1
> )

Figure 4.10: QP relaxation rate Γ∗ versus temperature and frequency. Thick lines are powerlaw fits, thin lines demarcate the critical relaxation rate Γcrit ., only below which well defined QP exist. (a) While ρdc displays a non-FL sub-linear T -dependence, the relaxation rate of well-defined resilient QP Γ∗ < Γcrit . approximately fol-lows the T 2- powerlaw of a hidden FL up to 25 K. (b-d) 

Γ∗(T ) displays powerlaw behavior with exponents α ≈ 2,see inset in (a) up to 25 K, where Γ∗ ≥ Γcrit .. (e) For 

ν > 15 .2 cm −1, Γ∗(T ) no longer displays powerlaw be-havior. (f-j) Γ∗(ν) at selected temperatures. Powerlaw fits yield exponents β ≈ 2, see inset of (f), up T = 20 K, above which Γ∗ ≥ Γcrit is found, see panel (k), and QP are no longer well-defined. 142 

identify reasonable powerlaw behavior. This upper limit is in good agreement with the temperature T = 25 Kup to which Γ∗(T ) shows approximate T 2-behavior, see panel (c). While the experimentally obtained exponents are suf-ficiently close to 2 for a reasonable interpretation within the hidden FL scenario, Wölfle has demonstrated [179] that values slightly smaller than 2 can actually be at-tributed to the nature of resilient QP on a microscopic level: On general grounds, the rate at which two QP scat-ter from initial states with energies ω1,2 and momenta 

k1,2 into states with ω3,4 and k3,4 reads (at zero temper-ature) 

Γ∗

> qp

(ω, k;T ) = ∑

> k2,k3,k4

˚ dω2dω3dω4

(2 π)3

[

|U1,2;3 ,4|2

×Ak2 (ω2)Ak3 (ω3)Ak4 (ω4)

×πδ (ω1 + ω2 − ω3 − ω4)

×δ(k + k2 − k3 − k4)

×[f2(1 − f3)(1 − f4) + (1 − f2)f3f4]

]

(4.25) where Ak(ω) = 2 πδ (ω − ϵ∗

> k

) is the QP spectral function, 

ϵ∗ 

> k

= Zqp ϵk is the renormalized Fermi energy, f2 = f (ω2),etc. is the Fermi function, and U1,2;3 ,4 is the interaction matrix element for scattering QP from 1, 2 into states 

3, 4. After a sequence of simplifications the integrations can be carried out and cast into [179] 

Γ∗

> qp

(ω) ≈ c(ω) ω2

ϵF

(4.26) where N0 is the bare density of states at the Fermi level and ϵF is the bare Fermi energy and 

c(ω) ≈ 1

ω2

ˆ ω

> 0

dϵ ∗

> 2

ˆ ϵ∗

> 2
> 0

dϵ ∗

> 3

ϵF

ϵ∗

> 234

|N0U |2 (4.27) where ϵ∗ 

> 234

is a linear function of ϵ∗

> 2

, ϵ ∗

> 3

, ϵ ∗

> 4

. At finite tem-peratures T > 0, the integrals over the Fermi functions yield a slightly different result and we need to replace 

ω2 → ω2 + ( πT )2 in above equations. In the FL regime, CeCoIn 5 - a hidden Fermi Liquid 143 

when Z−1 = m∗/m is independent of energy, we get 

c(ω) = cF L ∝ ϵF /ϵ ∗

F ∝ m∗/m , where ϵ∗

F is the renor-malized Fermi energy (see Refs. [180, 181]) and conse-quently restore the exact quadratic energy dependence of the relaxation rate. In the regime of resilient QP, the interaction U remains a weak function of energy, wher-eas integration over ϵF /ϵ ∗

234 is approximately constant. In this way, Wölfle concluded c(ω) to be a slowly de-creasing function of ω, T for resilient QP which serves as correction suppressing the powerlaw exponents slightly below 2 in agreement with the experimental observation. The limited range where Γ varies approximately quadrat-ically in energy can be attributed to the disappearance of resilient QP. One can argue [179, 159] that the existence of well-defined resilient QP is guaranteed as long as Γ∗

satisfies 

ℏΓ∗ ≤ ℏΓcrit . = 2 √(ℏω)2 + ( kB T )2 + ℏΓimp . (4.28) 3 6 10 20 30 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0            

> Z
> -1
> ~ C
> e
> /T ~
> e
> ~ (T
> 1
> T)
> -1/2
> (arb.  units)
> C
> e/T(Nakatsuji 2002)
> e(Kim 2001)
> (T
> 1T)
> -1 /2 (Kawasaki 2008)
> Z
> -1(this work)
> Temperature (K)

Figure 4.11: Renormalization factor Z−1(T ) measured by optical spectroscopy (at 6.5 cm −1) and calculated from electronic specific heat, - susceptibility (at 0.1 T), and nuclear spin-lattice relaxation (taken from Refs. [130], [131], and [132] respectively). The NFL T -dependence of Ce/T , χe and T1 agree remarkable well with the one of Z−1 and the scenario of resilient QPs constituting a hidden FL in CeCoIn 5.144 

(ℏ, k B are Planck’s and Boltzmann’s constants) where the factor 2 reflects our definition of the QP relaxation rate Γ∗ as twice Γ∗ 

> qp

= −ZImΣ where Σ is the FL self-energy and Γimp . = 2 .7 cm −1 is the residual impu-rity scattering estimated from Fig. 4.10(a). Imposing the criterion Eq. (4.28) to the experimental data (thin solid lines in Fig. 4.10(a-d) and (f-k)) leads to two con-clusions: (i) The approximate ν2-behavior of Γ∗(ν) dis-appears as Γ∗ exceeds Γcrit . above 20 K. (ii) The tem-perature, up to which Γ∗(0 < ν ≤ 15 .2 cm −1, T ) varies approximately as T 2 agrees roughly with the temper-ature for which Γ∗(T ) < Γcrit holds, see panels (b-d). Although Γ∗(T ) < Γcrit also holds at higher frequen-cies, a T 2-behavior is absent. This may be attributed to the vicinity to the Kondo regime at higher energies as (see the Supplementary Material for details) Γ∗ ∝ T 2

requires the QP interaction to be approximately inde-pendent of energy. This condition is no longer satisfied in the crossover regime to the high temperature indepen-dent Kondo ion lattice, when the resilient QP no longer exist. Hence, we conclude that the optical response of CeCoIn 5 can be understood in terms of a hidden FL composed from heavy resilient QP, that expands over a major part of the HF state up to around 25 − 30 K. In the above discussion, we silently assumed a con-stant charge carrier density N as function of temper-ature. For HF systems, this assumption is, generally, not valid: When temperature falls below Tcoh , the previ-ously localized f electrons hybridize with the conduction electrons and, though heavy, become part of the Fermi surface and increase N . From our optical measurements, we cannot quantify the rise of N below Tcoh , however, it will certainly affect the conductivity much less than the mass enhancement. With a carrier number of 1.5 per formula unit [160], the complete hybridization of one f

electron per unit would increase N by a factor of 1.67 ,which is about one order of magnitude less than the mass enhancement. In addition, the T, ν -square regime is re-alized for temperatures lower than 25 K, where a ma-jor portion of the f electrons most likely has already merged into the Fermi sea. In further support, ARPES measurements [182] have shown only a partial localized-itinerant transition of the f electrons, down to tempera-tures ∼17 K suggesting a even smaller change in N .Scaling behavior of the effective mass 145 

Having elucidated the anomalous ρdc (T ) of CeCoIn 5

from the perspective of resilient QPs and the T - and ν-dependent Z it is worthwhile to apply a similar reasoning to other observables to sharpen the non-FL classification towards a hidden FL. Aside from the resistivity, previous studies on the HF regime reported the electronic specific heat Ce ∝ − T ln T [130, 131], the magnetic susceptibility 

χe ∝ T −0.42 [131], and the nuclear spin-lattice relax-ation time 1/T 1 ∝ T 0.25 [132], whereas for a canonical FL one expects ZC FL e ∝ T , Zχ FL e =const. [183], and the Korringa relation Z2/T FL 1 ∝ T . As for a FL Z(T )

is a constant, the above FL relations determine the en-tire T -dependencies. On the one side, the framework of hidden FL theory has yet not been worked out for the electronic specific heat, magnetic susceptibility, and spin-lattice relaxation time. On the other side, given the clear case of resistivity and QP relaxation rate, we can hypothesize a hidden FL-like T -dependence of these quantities masked by Z(T ). To resolve the influence of 

Z(T ), we rearrange the above FL predictions to read 

Ce/T ∝ Z−1, χe ∝ Z−1, and (T1T )−1/2 ∝ Z−1. Fig-ure 4.11 compares Z−1(T ) at 6.5 cm −1 of this work to the corresponding forms calculated from the Ce, χe and 

1/T 1 data [131, 130, 132]. By rescaling the y-axes, all sets of Z−1(T ) can remarkably well be collapsed on a mutual straight line over the relevant temperature ranges of the alleged non-FL behavior. In analogy with the QP relaxation rate above we come to the conclusion, that inclusion of Z−1(T ) unveils FL-like behavior not only of optical but also thermodynamic quantities caused by resilient QPs. 

# 4.6 Scaling behavior of the effec-tive mass 

As much as there is hardly any doubt that CeCoIn 5 is a quantum-critical material, the nature and even the very localization of the QCP in the phase diagram poses a co-nundrum as outlined in Sec. 4.1.2. Hence, how (if at all) quantum criticality might serve as explanation for the observed non-FL behavior in a wide range of the phase diagram is an open question. The available experimental 146 

studies based on the temperature and magnetic-field de-pendence of resistivity, specific heat, thermal expansion, Grüneisen parameter, Hall effect, nuclear spin-lattice re-laxation, and magnetic susceptibility (to name the most important ones) document diverse and sophisticated ap-proaches, yet at the same time do not constitute a co-herent picture. A clear experimental access to quantum criticality is often complicated or even completely spoiled by non-critical contributions. This holds, in particular, for scaling behavior which is a typical signature of quan-tum critical regimes. Disorder and the temperature de-pendent phonon scattering, for instance, may completely overshadow electronic correlations effects in, e.g., the real conductivity making a scaling analysis thereof pre-carious. A quantity such as the effective mass, whose temperature- and frequency dependence solely results from electronic interactions, could be an alternative. The search for scaling based on m∗ is therefore less ambigu-ous, yet also barely employed approach due to the experi-mental difficulties to measure m∗(ν, T ) over a sufficiently large parameter range. Typically, de-Hass van-Alphen (dHvA) or angle resolved photo emission spectroscopy (ARPES) measurements are performed both known for notorious difficulties at elevated temperatures and ox-idized surfaces, respectively. Especially for CeCoIn 5,where, on the one side, degradation is a well-known prob-lem due to the highly reactive Ce 3+ -ions, and on the other side, the temperature range of interest extends to several 10 K. Consequently, experimental studies are scarce: At the time of writing, the available dHvA stud-ies concentrate on the superconducting state [184], the effect of Cd substitution in the Fermi surface topology, [185], high magnetic fields [131] or applied pressures [186]. Similarly, ARPES studies focus on basic Fermi-surface topology [187], f -orbital occupancy for Yb doping [188], hybridization effects in the normal [189] and supercon-ducting states [190] and do not explicitly address m∗(T )

over a wide range of temperature. On general grounds, one has to discriminate between two main scenarios at the QCP. In the (conventional) spin-density-wave (SDW) model realized, e.g., in CeNi 2Ge 2

[191] or CeIn 3−xSn x [192], the Kondo temperature re-mains finite at the the QCP and the local moments are Scaling behavior of the effective mass 147 

completely hybridized. SDW- or Hertz-Millis [193, 194] quantum criticality is captured by a non-interacting Ginzburg-Landau-Wilson type field theory where Gaussian AFM fluctuations are the only relevant critical modes at play. In the (unconventional) case of local quantum criticality, the destruction of AFM at the QCP goes hand in hand with the breakdown of Kondo screening such that in the vicinity of the QCP unscreened local moments persist down to lowest temperatures [195, 153, 196, 197, 198]. Indeed, these local moments providing a second type of critical modes appear to play a key role in the quan-tum critical properties of certain antiferromagnetic HF metals. In the paradigmatic case of CeCu 6−xAu x mea-surements of the spin susceptibility [199] played a crucial role in revealing the nature of the QCP by demonstrating 

ω/T scaling in agreement with local quantum criticality rather than the SDW picture, where scaling takes a dif-ferent form. Consequently, measurements covering the quantum critical regime in both temperature and fre-quency allowing to search of scaling behavior can be of great importance to discriminate between the two sce-narios of quantum criticality. At the time of writing, none of both models have been worked out concerning scaling behavior of m∗(T ).Hence, in what follows, we use a heuristic approach in-spired from previous work of Schroeder et al. [199] and conductivity studies on the layered Co-oxide [200] and certain high-Tc cuprates [201], reading 

m∗(ω, T ) = mbT αg

( ωT β

)

(4.29) where α < 0, β > 0 and the universal scaling function g

is defined as 

g

( ωT β

)

=

(

y + 2πhcω 

(kB T )β

)−1

(4.30) with y a dimensionless parameter. Usually, the opti-mal collapse is found by minimizing the distance between data and a universal function 110 . Without knowledge of 110 See, e.g., Ref. [166] for an in-structive example of FL scaling behavior in SrRuO 3

such a universal function, identifying the optimal col-lapse becomes a more delicate problem. Here, we em-ploy an algorithm that optimizes a sufficiently good ini-tial guess such as Eq. (4.30). Consider the right side of 148 

Eq. (4.29) given as an analytic scaling function 

χ = χ(ω, T, {αk}) (4.31) with {αk} an arbitrary set of real scaling parameters. Further, consider indices i = 1 , ... n labeling n discrete frequencies and j = 1 , ... N labeling N temperatures. Suppose the experimental data to be arranged in sets 

sj =

{

(xj

> 1

, m ∗(T j , ω 1)); ( xj

> 2

, m ∗(T j , ω 2)); ... (xjn, m ∗(T j , ω n)) 

}

(4.32) where xji = χ(ωi, T j , {αk}) is the scaling variable and 

xj 

> 1

< x j 

> 2

< ... < x jn. For each set sj we construct a con-tinuous (linear) interpolation function f j (x). To judge the quality of the data collapse for a particular choice of parameters {αk} we define the quantity 

δj ({αk}) = 1

Cj − cjCj

ˆ

> cj

|f j (x) − f j+1 (x)|dx (4.33) measuring the area between two neighboring interpola-tions f j and f j+1 in their overlap interval defined by 

cj ≡ max[ xj

> 1

, x j+1 1 ] and Cj ≡ min[ xjn, x j+1  

> n

], weighted by the length of the interval. The collapse between two ad-jacent sets sj and sj+1 is best for minimal δj . Therefore, the collapse between all sets is optimal for a particular choice of {αk} minimizing the expression 

∆( {αk}) = 

> N−1

∑

> j=1

1

Cj − cjCj

ˆ

> cj

|f j (x) − f j+1 (x)|dx

(4.34) which can easily be implemented numerically. Impor-tantly, this procedure does not require knowledge of the universal function a priori . The applicability of the sug-gested algorithm is restricted to sufficiently close data sets with a finite overlap Cj − cj > 0 and care must be taken to avoid negative-valued δj leading to an ill-defined minimal ∆. Here, we include an inverse step-function 1/Θj (Cj − cj ) to the sum in Eq. (4.34) return-ing ∆ → ∞ in case of negative-valued δj . The best collapse of data is displayed in Fig. 4.12 and achieved for Scaling behavior of the effective mass 149 0.1 1010 20 30           

> -1.3 -1.2
> 0.1 110
> 2
> / ( cm
> 2
> ) ~ m* /m
> b
> Tg(T)(arb. units)
> 30K
> 35K
> 40K
> 50K
> 60K
> 70K
> 80K
> 100K
> 3K
> 6
> 8K
> 10K
> 13K
> 16K
> 20K
> 25K
> T()
> g
> -1 (T m* /m
> b)
> (arb.  units)

Figure 4.12: Scaling behavior of the effective mass 

measured by ρ2/ν according to Eq. (4.29) and (4.30). The optimal collapse is achieved for α = −0.94 , β =0.96 , and y = 0 .24 revealing an approximate ν/T scaling of the effective mass. The Inset shows the same data collapse plotted versus ν/T β .

α = −0.94 , β = 0 .96 and y = 0 .24 forming three dis-tinct temperature regimes of scaling. First, at temper-atures above 50 K (high-temperature side of the ρdc (T )

peak), m∗ does not depend on energy and m∗/m b ∼ 1

scales trivially (asterisks). Second, between 40 and 20 K, 

m∗ becomes energy dependent and the universal curve bends upwards (stars). Third, down to 3 K (full circles) we find m∗ to follow a straight line in the log-linear plot and the data collapse to become sharper with decreasing temperature. The third range coincides with the regime where the hidden FL state is revealed from the approxi-mate T 2 behavior of the QP relaxation rate. The scaling of m∗, however, can be traced up to 40 K, exceeding the hidden-FL regime by nearly a factor of two. The ex-ponents α = −0.94 and β = 0 .96 can be compared to the two paradigmatic predictions for the susceptibility, namely α = −1.5 and β = 1 .5 for a SDW-QCP within Hertz-Millis theory and local quantum criticality charac-terized by β = 1 . Although neither of both predictions is exactly met in our experimental data, it is tempting to interpret the approximate ν/T scaling as signature of lo-cal quantum criticality in agreement with the aforemen-tioned recent proposal of zero-field QCP and 2D critical 150 

fluctuations. The above scaling only expands over roughly one order of magnitude in energy. The search for scaling on a larger parameter range, however, is deemed to fail. To-wards higher temperatures (and corresponding IR fre-quencies) above the HF state, the energy dependence of m∗ vanishes [160, 143] and scaling becomes obsolete. At lower temperatures (and microwave frequencies), su-perconducting fluctuations and superconductivity itself strongly affect the charge dynamics [139, 140, 141, 142] and make studies of m∗ difficult. Also the suppression of superconductivity with magnetic fields is problematic, as the resulting normal state is canonical FL [178] with a different dimensionality [134]. Understanding the rela-tion (if there is) between the observed scaling behavior, quantum criticality, and the hidden-FL state in CeCoIn 5

and beyond is a challenge for future theoretical work. Outlook 151 

# 4.7 Outlook 

Figure 4.13: 

m∗(T, B )/m b of CeCoIn 5 at a fixed GHz frequency measured with amicrowave res-onator [202]. Note flattening in the high-field and low-T

FL regime. 

In this work we have demonstrated how the dynami-cal response at matching energy scales kB T ∼ hν yields valuable information about the nature of the HF state in CeCoIn 5 advancing our current understanding not inly incrementally, but providing a complete new perspective on its enigmatic non-FL behavior. The identification of a hidden FL over a substantial part of the HF state is an important finding on its own, yet also unravels just a small part of the entire phase diagram. Thinking in terms of resilient QP of a hidden FL might be a fruitful starting point to reconsider the quantum critical behav-ior, especially the anomalous transport coefficients in ap-proach of the conjectured field-tuned QCPs, as discussed in Sec. 4.1.2, although the hidden FL theory has (if pos-sible at all) not been worked out for finite magnetic fields yet. Given the high-field and low-T recovery of canoni-cal FL and the zero-field hidden FL, we hypothesize that, first, the non-FL regime in between is also characterized by a strong T, ν dependent renormalization and, second, consideration thereof will reveal a parabolic QP relax-ation rate Γ∗(ν, T ). Indeed, Broun et al. measured the 

B- and T -dependence of the effective mass at a fixed GHz frequency using a microwave resonator approach revealing a T -dependence of m∗/m b, see Fig. 4.13, that expands over the entire phase diagram but levels off in the FL state and, hence, hints the importance of renor-malization not only in zero-field but the entire non-FL regime. Measuring the dynamical response at finite fields will also help to clarify the relevance of the approximate 

ν/T scaling of the effective mass. More desirably, how-ever, is a better understanding of the scaling behavior within the different models for quantum criticality. 1 10 050 100     

> 0123
> dc
> ( cm)  ~Z
> dc
> (arb.  units)
> T emperature (K)
> 100  x m*/m
> b
> UPt
> 3
> (Tran et al. 2002)

Figure 4.14: ρdc ,

Γ∗, and m∗/m b ver-sus T for the HF su-perconductor UPt 3.Dashed lines are T 2

fits. Data taken from [203]. 

After the Mott insulator V 2O3 and the Hund’s metal CaRuO 3, we add the HF metal CeCoIn 5 as third en-try to the list of known hidden-FL materials. Although formulated for the doped Mott insulators, the hidden FL concept seems robust and might serve as model for further non-FL systems that so far escaped solid under-standing. In some cases we can test this hypothesis on basis of earlier measurements. Referring to work [203] of Tran et al. , we suggest the U-based HF metal UPt 3

to be a hidden FL: UPt 3 displays a T -square rise of ρdc 152 

up to about TFL = 5 K, just where m∗/m b acquires a notable T -dependence, see Fig. 4.14. Taking the renor-malization into account, one finds a T 2 law for Γ∗ up to at least 17 K≫ TFL , consistent with a hidden FL. However, applying this analysis to measurements of the almost quantum-critical HF metal CeFe 2Ge 2 by Bosse 

et al. [204] does not uncover a quadratic Γ∗ behind 

ρdc ∝ T 1.5. For most correlated electron systems, how-ever, m∗(T )/m b has not been measured yet in the rele-vant temperature range and the question of possible hid-den FL behavior remains open. As silently hypothesized using Eq. (4.14) on ρdc (T ),10 0123                     

> hidden FL
> 2
> / ~ Z
> -1
> Tem perature (K)
> m arginal FL?
> Figure 4.15: Renor-malization Z−1ver-sus Tat 6.5 cm −1.The solid lines are guides to the eyes demarcating acrossover at around 10 K with increasing temperature -from marginal FL to hidden FL?

we note [159] that the crossover from linear to sub-linear 

ρdc (T ) and weak to stronger (log-like) decline of m∗(T )/m b ∼

Z−1 at 6.5 cm −1, see Fig. 4.15, at around 10 K could be interpreted as a crossover from a hidden FL with resilient QP to a so-called marginal FL with critical QP [157, 158]. Then, however, also the quadratic behavior of Γ∗(ν, T )

should give way to Γ∗ ∝ −| x|/ln( x) with x = ν, T [159]. Unfortunately, such a small difference in functional form cannot be inferred with certainty based on the available data. The question, if a marginal FL serves as bridge between the (presumably) non-critical hidden FL regime and the QCP therefore remains an experimental and in-tellectual challenge for future research. To put the behavior of CeCoIn 5 in the broader con-text, THz studies studies of the related compounds CeRhIn 5

and CeIrIn 5 as well as the parent compound CeIn 3 are highly desirable. At the time of writing, thin-film growth of these materials is still a major challenge [155]. As for CeIn 3, Matsuda et al. managed to grow sufficiently thin films of a few ten nanometer on MgF 2 substrates. First measurements of the THz response reveal a frequency de-pendent Γ in the HF regime similar as for CeCoIn 5, but inconclusive energy dependence of m∗/m b. In addition, the films tend to rapid degradation at room temperature even in He atmosphere. Although from in-situ monitor-ing of ρdc (T ) we can rule out a degradation at low tem-peratures on a measurement scale of ∼36 hours, the sit-uation is apparently much more delicate as for CeCoIn 5.The growth of CeRhIn 5 films with a thickness less than 

∼120 nm and without a CeIn 3 buffer layer is still not possible. Due to their high conductivity, these films sup-Outlook 153 

press the THz transmission amplitude to 10 −4 − 10 −5

where a reliable data analysis is borderline. With the re-cent advances in MBE growth of these compounds, it can be hoped that the current obstacles will be removed and reliable THz studies of the Ce M e In 5 become feasible. A. 

# Experiment and Analysis 

# A.1 Sample preparation 

A.1.1 NbN thin films 

The majority of superconducting NbN samples were sup-plied by P. Raychaudhuri (Mumbai, India) and grown via reactive magneto sputtering (Ar/N 2 atmosphere at 5 mTorr) as thin films between 20 and 30nm thickness on dielectric sapphire or MgO substrates held at 600 ◦C. By careful control of the Ar/N 2 ratio (varying between 90/10 and 70/30) while sputtering, the number of atomic defects (i.e. Nb vacancies) was adjusted producing NbN films covering a wide range of disorder. Clean-limit sam-ples with a low dc-transport resistivity ρdc have high critical temperatures up to Tc ≈ 15 K whereas Tc and 

ρdc and Tc are rapidly increased and suppressed, respec-tively, in the approach of quantum criticality. The most-critical sample 111 studied towards its THz and tunneling 111 Note that the plot Fig. 2.12 comprises data for a even more critical sample with       

> Tc=3.1K inferred from microwave spectroscopy done by M. Mondal et al. ,see Ref. [53]

response has Tc = 4 K. A minor number of supplemen-tary clean-limit samples grown in the identical fashion where supplied by M. Siegel and K. Illin (Karlsruhe, Ger-many). Here, the film thickness is of the order of 5 nm but values of ρdc and Tc are in line with the samples of the aforementioned batch so that no separate treatment is required. Accordingly, in our discussion we will not distinguish between the batches, and will use the value of 

Tc as a straight-forward quantity measuring the distance from quantum criticality. More details of the growth process and transport characterization can be found in [40] and references therein. 

A.1.2 Granular Al 

Thin films of granular Al were deposited using thermal evaporation, see Ref. [74] for details. In order to obtain high-quality transmission measurements, films of 40 nm thickness were deposited on 2 mm thick MgO substrates. The substrates were kept at liquid nitrogen temperature 156 

during growth. Clean Al pellets (purity of 99.999%) were evaporated from alumina-coated Mb boat in O 2 partial pressure of about 10 −5 Torr. Samples of different resis-tivity ρdc ranging between a few 100 and 1000 μΩcm at 300 K were produced by carefully varying the evapora-tion rate and the O 2 partial pressure. While the grains in the low-resistivity (LR) limit can be considered well-coupled, the opposite case of completely decoupled grains is realized in the high-resistivity limit (HR). The shape, size, and size distribution of grains in granular Al has been studied by Deutscher et al. [74, 75, 77] by means of dark-field microscopy: Low-resistivity films deposited on substrates held at room temperature display spheri-cal grains with a broad distribution of diameter peaked at around 5 nm that sharpens sightly and shifts towards 3 nm with increasing resistivity. Substrates kept at liquid nitrogen temperatures while deposition favor the growth of films with a narrow size distribution with a mean of 2 nm irrespective of resistivity within the scope of this work [205]. The critical influence of O 2 concentration and substate temperature on the structural properties of granular Al can be explained following the early ideas of Shapira and Deutscher [76]. Starting from a nucle-ation seed, grains grow spherically by accumulation of Al atoms and dielectric Al 2O3 molecules. As growth con-tinues, Al 2O3 is expelled to the grain’s surface where it eventually terminates growth of the metallic bulk, when forming a complete insulating oxide shell. Clearly, a high concentration of O 2 favors the formation of Al 2O3 and tends to thicken the insulating barriers between grains lowering the electronic inter-grain coupling and increas-ing the transport resistivity. The reduction of grain size with decreasing substrate temperature results from the suppression of coalescence, i.e. the formation of larger structures from the ’melting’ of smaller ones. 

A.1.3 CeCoIn 5

The samples under study are two 70 nm thick films of CeCoIn 5 deposited via molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) [155] on a dielectric 10 ×5×0.5 mm 3 MgF 2 substrate both grown and measured in 2013 and 2015, respectively. The low growth rate of 0.01 - 0.02 nm/s allows a very precise control of the layer thickness. The growth process and high crystalline quality was monitored in situ via the re-Sample preparation 157 

flection high-energy electron diffraction (RHEED) tech-nique. MBE growth of Ce-based heavy fermion thin films [206, 207, 208, 209, 210] has already been employed for previous THz studies [148], however high-quality films were obtained only with additional metallic buffer lay-ers. Despite the advanced MBE growth THz transmis-sion measurements nevertheless remain challenging for several reasons. First, the film needs to be thin enough to allow for a detectable transmission signal, while the sample quality favors thick films. Here we have cho-sen a thickness of 70 nm, which is a compromise be-tween sample quality and suitability for our experimental technique. Second, thin films of CeCoIn 5 tend to rapid degradation in ambient air conditions so that exposure time must be cut to a minimum [148] Third, the aper-ture, through which the focused THz radiation passes before it is transmitted through the sample, needs to have a diameter da smaller than the sample. We have chosen da = 3 mm which restricts our accessible spec-tral range to wavelengths shorter than ∼ da/2 = 1 .5 mm (∼ 6 cm −1) due to diffraction effects. After deposition in Kyoto, each film was sealed in a glass tube under vacuum conditions before it was shipped to Stuttgart. Right after removal from the glass tube, the samples were mounted onto the THz sample holder, transferred to the cryostat, and rapidly cooled down in He-gas atmosphere so that the exposure time to ambient air was less than 5 minutes 112 . The entire optical mea- 112 After deposition, the samples were im-mediately sealed in the glass tubes, so that the overall ex-posure time is of ∼10 minutes. 

surements were subsequently performed during a period of about 36 hours. During this time, the samples were always kept below 150 K. Afterwards, they were removed from the cryostat and contacted in standard 4-point ge-ometry in order to measure the dc-sheet resistivity ρdc .Containing highly reactive Ce 3+ ions, thin films of CeCoIn 5 are notoriously susceptible for oxidation and require a careful handling. While the first generation of thin films suffered from poor quality and rapid degrada-tion even if kept at low temperatures and under vacuum conditions [211], the advances in MBE growth have led to a considerably enhanced crystalline quality and chemical stability of the samples studied within this work. Nev-ertheless, ruling out any effects degradation is a crucial prerequisite for a reliable data interpretation. By com-paring spectra of the transmission amplitude, in what 158 20 25 30 35 10 -3 

10 -2 

8 10 12 10 -3 

10 -2 

27 30 33 36 10 -1 

10 0 

> 05.07.2013
> 20.09.2013 (c) CeCoIn

5 - M756  

> (b) CeCoIn

5 - SO34  

> (a) CeCoIn

5 - M757 t = 77 days     

> t=4days
> 30.04.2015
> 04.05.2015
> Transmission  amplitude  t
> 05.07.2013
> 07.07.2013 Frequency (cm

-1 )   

> t=2days

Figure A.1: Transmission-amplitude spectra for different CeCoIn 5 samples as function of time 

(a,b) Spectra of samples M757 (examined in the remain-der of this chapter) and SO34 do not show signs of degra-dation (i.e. a enhanced transmission amplitude) after 77 and 4 days, respectively. (c) For comparison, sample M756 displays a notable rise of t(ν) after only 2 days even though being kept under high-vacuum conditions, and thus, experimental data for this sample has not been considered for further analyses. 

follows, we use a sensitive probe to measure the degree of degradation over time. Starting with sample M757 (i,e, the sample on which major parts of the discussion Frequency-domain THz spectroscopy 159 

in this Chapter is based) Fig. A.1(a) displays t(ν) as mea-sured right after mounting the sample inside the cryostat at 225 K and at 300 K after being kept at high-vacuum conditions for 77 days. Although the frequency ranges are different, the spectra connect smoothly and do not exhibit a jump towards higher values as it would be expected for a (partially) oxidized film. Consequently, we can rule out sample degradation during measurement time of ∼ 60 hours. The same conclusion can be drawn for the second film (SO34) discussed in this work, see panel (b). After a time span of 4 days, during which the optical and transport measurements were performed, no changes in t(ν) (as measured at 120 K) appear which would point towards film degradation. Note that the spectra slightly differ, which, however, has to be at-tributed to a marginally different optical alignment. The above exclusion of degradation can be contrasted with a sample of poor quality. Panel (c) compares t(ν) of sam-ple M756 measured at 300 K after removal from the glass tube and after being stored in high-vacuum for 2 days. First, the low quality can be inferred from the trans-mission amplitude being about 50 times higher than for the samples shown in panels (a-b) despite the nominally same film thickness of 70 nm. Second, even if kept in high-vacuum, t(ν) rose significantly over a time span of 2 days due to oxidation of the film. Even though the processes during growth, that eventually dictate the fate of the film, are unclear, the above considerations allow a discussion where any spurious contamination of degra-dation effects can certainly be ruled out. 

# A.2 Frequency-domain THz spec-troscopy 

Our THz studies are based on the frequency-domain spec-troscopy technique. Coherent, monochromatic and con-tinuous THz radiation is generated by frequency-tunable backward-wave-oscillators (BWO) that provide frequen-cies from 1 to 47 cm −1 [212]. This spectral range is cov-ered by a number of different BWO radiation sources (in the following just sources ), see bottom of Fig. A.2. The power of the radiation strongly depends on the frequency and may be as large as 100 mW for low-frequency and sig-160 

nificantly smaller (0.1 mW) for high-frequency sources. As a consequence, the low-frequency radiation power might be too strong and requires use of attenuators to avoid sample heating or detector overload. The great benefit of FDS compared to time-domain spectroscopy (TDS) is to process frequencies step by step with a sta-bility and resolution exceeding ∆ω/ω = 10 −6 depending on the BWO power supply. While TDS excites all available energies simultane-ously and has to struggle with minor signal strength, FDS can directly probe narrow-band excitations and re-solve detailed line shapes. The high output power leads to high signal-to-noise ratio that can reach values up to 

10 6. Frequency doublers and triplers (Virginia Diodes) that allow extending the frequency range of a separate source can effectively be used. Loss of the radiation in-tensity is easily compensated by use of a 4He bolome-ter (see below). After the radiation is generated by the BWO, it is collimated by a Teflon, quartz, or polyethy-lene lens and guided by aluminum mirrors and wire grids, see top of Fig. A.2, which act as beam splitters depend-ing on polarization. Other lenses are used to focus the radiation on the sample under study and the detector. Attenuators, polarizer, chopper, and analyzer are tilted with respect to the beam propagation axis to suppress standing waves between these parts. The quasi-optical part of the experiment is a Mach-Zehnder interferometer which allows us to measure both amplitude and phase-shift of THz radiation passing through a sample. The radiation is detected by either a Golay cell or a 

> 4

He-cooled bolometer (Infrared Laboratories), depend-ing on signal strength. For transmission measurements, the radiation is mechanically chopped to make it de-tectable using a lock-in technique. Determining the spectra of optical parameters of the plane-parallel sample involves measurements of the trans-mission and phaseshift spectra from which the spectra of real and imaginary parts of complex permittivity, con-ductivity, etc., are calculated directly and without use of any additional analysis (such as Kramers-Kronig analy-sis). Recording a transmission spectrum is performed with the second arm of the interferometer blocked. It consists of two separate steps. First, the signal intensity versus Frequency-domain THz spectroscopy 161 10                         

> -3
> 10
> -2
> 10
> -1
> 10
> 0
> 10
> 1
> 10
> 2
> (b)
> BWO  Output  Power  (mW)
> (a)
> 0510 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 10
> -4
> 10
> -2
> 10
> 0
> 10
> 2
> *2 *3
> *3
> without multiplier
> with multiplier
> Frequency (cm
> -1
> )spectral range with frequency multipliers *2
> 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4
> Frequency (THz)

Figure A.2: Top: Simplified sketch of the utilized Mach-Zehnder interferometer. Attenuators, polarizer, chopper, and analyzer are tilted with respect to the beam propaga-tion axis to suppress standing waves between these parts. Measuring the phaseshift requires both arms of the inter-ferometer, whereas the second arm is blocked for trans-mission measurements. Bottom: (a) BWO output power of several sources versus frequency. The range from 1 to 47 cm −1 is covered entirely. (b) The available spectral range of a source can be increased using passive frequency doubler and tripler (dashed lines). The signal intensity in the doubled/tripled spectral range, however, is 3 to 4 orders of magnitude smaller and may require use of a 

4He-cooled bolometer for detection. 162 

frequency is recorded with no sample in the beam path. This transmission spectrum is regarded 100% transmis-sion and used as measurement calibration. Second, the transmission spectrum is recorded with the sample in the beam path and the absolute transmission spectrum is obtained as a result of division of the two correspond-ing data arrays. In this way we can account for the frequency-dependent output power of the radiation pass-ing through the measurement channel. To measure phase-shift spectra, the second arm has to be unblocked. Again, the measurement consists of two separate steps: calibra-tion without and measurement with the sample in the beam path. In order to obtain reliable data, one has to guarantee optimal interference of the two beams at the analyzer. This is provided by aligning the spectrometer elements and achieving maximal ratio between minimal (destructive interference) and maximal (constructive in-terference) signal strength. The interference signal is detected using a lock-in technique. However, the signal is modulated not using the chopper (amplitude modula-tion) but the oscillating mirror (phase modulation), as shown in Fig. A.2. During a measurement process, the movable mirror is automatically kept in a position corre-sponding to zero-order destructive interference (minimal signal) while the frequency range is swept. The mirror position versus frequency is recorded when the sample is out of (calibration scan) and in (measurement) the opti-cal path, and the phaseshift spectrum is calculated from the difference between the two spectra 113 113 the mea-sured quantity is            

> phaseshift ϕ(rad), however, in this paper we will always refer to relative phaseshift ϕ/ν
> (rad/cm −1)with
> ν=ω/ (2 πc ) and c
> the speed of light in vacuum

Optical anisotropy is an issue that has to be taken into account carefully. E.g., the Fabry-Pérot resonances can become more complex [213]. Many common sub-strates for thin-film deposition are birefringent such as Al 2O3 or NdGaO 3. To align the polarization direction E

of the radiation to sample axes of interest, one can ad-just either the sample or the polarization angle of the 1. beam splitter (followed by corresponding turning of the 2. beam splitter, setting it to 90 ◦ relative to the 1. beam splitter). In case of optical anisotropy of both substrate and film and misaligned optical axes, the optical set-up and analysis has to be customized [147]. Analysis of the complex transmission data 163 5.2 5.3 5.4 9.5 10.0                      

> 510 15 20 25 30 35 40 0.000 0.005 0.010 0.015
> MgO substrate for NbN (~17K) Al
> 2O
> 3substrate for Al and NbN (~5K)
> 5K
> 6K
> 8K
> 10K
> 13K
> 16K
> 20K
> 25K
> 30K
> 35K
> 40K
> 50K
> 60K
> 70K
> 80K
> 100K
> 150K
> 250K
> 1 MgF
> 2substrate for CeCoIn
> 5
> 2
> Frequency (cm
> -1 )

Figure A.3: Optical properties of the substrates employed in this work The upper panel displays the real part ϵ1 of the complex permittivity of Al 2O3 (used as substrate for granular Al and NbN), MgO (substrate of some NbN films) and MgF 2 (substrate for CeCoIn 5). The lower panel displays the imaginary part ϵ2 of M gF 2

for various temperatures. 

# A.3 Analysis of the complex trans-mission data 

Typical spectra of transmission amplitude t and phase shift normalized to frequency ϕ/ν of a representative su-perconductor (granular Al) and metallic (CeCoIn 5) sam-ples are shown in Fig. A.4 and A.5. The pronounced oscillation pattern stems from multiple reflections inside the substrate, which acts as Fabry Perot (FP) resonator. To model the particular behavior of t and ϕ/ν we use the Fresnel equations for multiple reflections [149], where the thickness d and dielectric function ˆϵ(ν) = ϵ1(ν) + iϵ 2(ν)

of substrate (s) and thin film (f) directly enter 

t = t(ds, ϵ s1(ν), ϵ s2(ν); df , ϵ f1(ν), ϵ f2(ν)) (A.1) 

ϕ/ν = ϕ(ds, ϵ s1(ν), ϵ s2(ν); df , ϵ f1(ν), ϵ f2(ν)) /ν (A.2) Equivalently, this can be expressed in terms of the dy-namical conductivity ˆσ(ν) = σ1(ν) + iσ 2(ν), which is 164 

directly related to ˆϵ via 

ˆϵ(ν) = 1 + i

2π

ˆσ(ν)

νϵ 0

(A.3) with ϵ0 the permittivity of the vacuum. With the thick-nesses df and ds regarded as constant (i.e. we neglect thermal contraction or expansion) this general formal-ism leaves 4 parameters left to be determined. Substrate materials employed in this work were Al 2O3 (Sapphire) for granular Al and NbN films, MgO for some NbN films, and MgF 2 for CeCoIn 5, see Fig. A.3. In case of the super-conducting materials, we are only interested in the low-T properties of Al 2O3 and MgO, covering the range up a few K. Here, the loss in the substrate can be neglected. In fact, the transmission amplitude of bare substrates is so close to unity that any fit converges to ϵ2 = 0 irre-spective of frequency. The other part, ϵ1, turns out to be finite, yet temperature independent in the relevant regime. A slight increase with frequency is observed for both Al 2O3 and MgO which can be attributed to absorp-tion processes, e.g. due to optically active IR phonons. In case of the displayed Al 2O3 curve a deviation from the smooth dispersion is observed in the low-frequency limit. This effect does not necessarily reflect an intrinsic prop-erty of the material, but is more likely to stem from dis-turbances in the optical transmission spectra, e.g. due to standing waves or parasitic-radiation effects. Still, from the viewpoint of a subsequent film analysis, these some-what ’non-physical’ ϵ1 values are important as the inclu-sion thereof in the film analysis can account for the above mentioned optical disturbances leaving alone the desired film properties. Consequently, the effective ϵ1 dispersion has to be determined for each measurement and fed into the corresponding film analysis. In case of MgF 2, which was used as substrate material of CeCoIn 5, more caution was required, as the measurements expanded over a vast temperature range 3 - 150 K, where the temperature de-pendence of ϵ1,2 of the substrate may be non-trivial. In fact, between roughly 250 - 80 K we find ϵ1 to feature a temperature dependence as shown in Fig. A.3. For lower temperatures (which are more relevant to the physical questions addressed in this work), this T -dependence lev-els of and becomes negligible. What remains is a slight increase with increasing frequency, which most likely can Analysis of the complex transmission data 165 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6                            

> dc =257 cm T
> c=2.8 K20 nm Al 2mm Al
> 2O
> 3
> Transmittance
> 1.65 K
> 4.9K (a)
> 510 15 20 3.4 3.6 3.8 4.0
> Relative  phase  shift  (rad/cm
> -1 )
> Frequency (cm
> -1 )(b) (c) (d)
> 8. 0 8. 5 9. 0 9. 5 10. 0 0. 1 0. 2 0. 3
> F req u en c y (c m -1 )
> T ra n s mitta n c e
> f itting range
> 8. 0 8. 5 9. 0 9. 5 10. 0 3. 80 3. 84 3. 88 3. 92
> Fit
> f itting range
> Fit
> Re la tiv e  p h a s e  s h ift  (ra d /c m -1 )
> F req u en c y (c m -1 )

Figure A.4: Raw (a) transmittance t and (b) relative phase shift ϕ/ν spectra of a granular Al sample in the normal (black) and superconducting state (blue). The pronounced oscillation pattern arises from multiple re-flections inside the substrate which acts as a Fabry-Perot resonator. Insets (c) and (d) show the same data in the superconducting state together with a fit to Fresnel equa-tions simultaneously performed on t and ϕ/ν ) via σ1,2

of the film. Note that each FP transmittance peak is fit-ted separately in a narrow range (gray box) to obtain the frequency dependence of σ1,2 in the most unbiased way. 

be attributed to IR-processes similar as in the cases of Al 2O3 and MgO. At elevated temperatures, also a signifi-cant dielectric loss is apparent, which is reduced continu-ously towards low temperatures. The peculiar dispersion of ϵ2 may strike surprising, yet it does not affect the film analysis significantly as it becomes obvious when consid-ering the thickness of substrate ( ds) and film ( df ): with a ratio of ds/d f ≈ 5 × 10 4 one should expect equal con-tributions to the overall optical response when ϵ2 of the film is 5× 10 4 higher than ϵ2 of MgO. At 150 K, however, the ratio ϵ2,f /ϵ 2,s already exceeds 10 7 and becomes even greater as temperature is reduced. Consequently, the di-electric loss can safely be neglected in the analysis of the film as it influences the absorption by less than 0.1%. 166 0.000 0.005 0.010 0.015                                

> 70nm CeCoI n
> 5
> 350μm MgF
> 2
> Transmittance
> 250 K
> 3K (a)
> 510 15 20 25 30 35 40 0.4 0.6
> Relative  phase  shift  (rad/cm
> -1 )
> Frequency (cm
> -1 )(b) (c) (d)
> 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 0. 000 0. 005 0. 010
> F req u en c y (c m -1 )
> T ra n s mitta n c e
> 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 0. 68 0. 72
> f itting range f itting range
> Fit
> Re la tiv e  p h a s e  s h ift  (ra d /c m -1 )
> F req u en c y (c m-1 )

Figure A.5: Raw (a) transmittance t and (b) relative phase shift ϕ/ν spectra of a CeCoIn 5 sample in the normal-metal (black) and Heavy-Fermion states (HF, blue). Insets (c) and (d) show the same data in the HF state state together with a fit to Fresnel equations simultaneously performed on t and ϕ/ν via σ1,2 of the film. The optical properties of the substrate for a given temperature have been inferred from an additional mea-surement of a bare MgF 2 sample and were subsequently fed into the film analysis. 

Dirty-limit superconductors 

To calculate the conductivity of a superconducting film, see Fig. A.4, we process each FP peak separately: We start with the normal state, where we fit each FP peak (and the corresponding inflection range in ϕ/ν ) in a nar-row frequency window, see Fig. A.4(c-d), via σ1 of the film and ϵ1 of the substrate. This is possible because the relaxation rate is far above the THz frequency range so that σ2 of the film is approximately zero, and the sub-strate is perfectly transparent at THz frequencies ( ϵ2 =0) as we checked beforehand with a bare reference sub-strate. Afterwards, we keep ϵ1 of the substrate constant, proceed with the corresponding FP peak at lower tem-peratures, and fit via σ1,2 of the film. This procedure yields a pair of σ1,2 for the center frequency of each FP peak for each temperature. Note, that this analysis does not incorporate any microscopic model and, thus, can be Analysis of the complex transmission data 167 

regarded completely unbiased. 

Heavy-Fermion metals 

At elevated temperatures, the optical properties of the substrate have to be included more carefully to account for a possible frequency dependence. For a given tem-perature, the complex transmission of a bare reference substrate was fitted to ϵ1 and ϵ2 within each BWO spec-tral range and afterwards set as constant substrate pa-rameters in the single-peak fits of the film-on-substrate analysis, see Fig. A.5. In case of MgF 2 used as substrate for the heavy-fermion thin-films discussed in this work, no measurable changes with temperatures were observed below ∼ 80 K. 168 

# A.4 Measurement protocols and low-

# T characteristics 

Many measurements discussed in this work are performed at low temperatures, where the correct sensing of the ac-tual sample temperature is a notoriously difficult task. In case of THz spectroscopy as performed in this work, the correct measurement of temperature is challenged by two main issues: First, the set up for a transmission measure-ment requires most of the sample to be uncovered such that a sensor usually cannot be mounted directly on the sample, and second, thermal coupling between the sam-ple and the sensor (usually mounted on the solid brass sample holder) is established by He gas with a pressure of a few 100 mbar. The comparably poor thermal cou-pling becomes even weaker at temperatures below 4.2 K, where 4He liquefies leaving even less exchange gas. As many of the measurements featured in this work have been performed below 4.2 K, in particular the ones on granular Al, special care has been taken to characterize the low-temperature performance and quantify the error in T -sensing, as we will elucidate below. First, we describe the protocol for R(T ) and THz mea-surements at the base temperature T = 1 .65 K

1. Place the temperature sensor either on the sam-ple or the sample holder at the z-position of the aperture. 2. Align the sample under study horizontally with the temperature sensor 3. Condense liquid He into the sample chamber (inner vacuum chamber, IVC) up to ∼ 4 cm above the sample. 4. After the condensation is terminated, the sample quickly cools down to ∼ 2 K across the supercon-ducting transition. During this cool down, the 

R(T ) measurement is performed. 5. Pumping on the IVC He bath reduces the tempera-ture of the sample (and sensor) quickly to ∼ 1.65 K, where the temperature stabilization is maintained by careful control of the pumping speed. The sta-bility reached is of the order of mK. Measurement protocols and low-T characteristics 169 

The protocol for R(T ) and THz measurement at T =1.65 K and elevated temperatures is 1. Place the temperature sensor on the sample and follow steps 2-4 of the above protocol. 2. To raise the temperature between 2 and 4.2 K using the PID feedback control. 3. Pump on the IVC He bath to lower the tempera-ture between 2 and 1.58 K. Switch off the the PID control and stabilize at the desired temperature by regulating the pumping speed. In this way of op-eration, the temperature stability is of the order of a few mK. Placing the sensor on the film is only possible for suf-ficiently large samples. Measurements between 2 and 4.2 K with the sensor mounted on the sample holder are still possible, yet subject to a greater uncertainty of the temperature. The following quantification may serve as guide to estimate the temperature uncertainty for metal-lic thin films on insulating substrates (in what follows, 5 nm TiN on a silicon substrate). 

The influence of the T -sensor position for the T -measurement 

To estimate the difference between actual sample tem-perature and sensor readout, a R(T ) calibration of the thin film was recorded between 2 and 4.2 K with sample and sensor being thermally coupled by liquid He. After removal of the liquid He as contact medium, changes in 

R can then directly be translated in changes in tempera-ture. Figure A.6(a,b) displays R and the sensor read-out as function of time. After the temperature read-out has reached Tsensor = 2 .11 K, (set point 2.1 K) the film sta-bilizes at a resistance that translates to Tfilm = 2 .18 K, i.e. too high by δT = 70 mK, implying that the sam-ple is coupled more effectively to the heater than the sensor. A vertical translation of the sample by ∼ 2 cm upwards (i.e. moving the sample frame to calibration po-sition) leads to a sudden rise of δT = 620 mK. The sub-sequent back shift, however, causes an almost immediate thermalization to Tfilm = 2 .26 K whilst Tsensor = 2 .15 Kleaving a difference of δT = 110 mK. Figure A.6(c,d) dis-plays the identical procedure at a set point temperature 170 290 295 300 305 310 

> mov e  to  s ample

R = 299.99 ,i.e. T fi l m = 2.255 K

T = 0.541 K

R = 298.111 , i.e. T fi l m = 2.177 K

> mov e  to  c al
> R ( )
> s tp  2.1K

R = 306.244 , i.e. T fi l m = 2.796 K

T = 0.619 K       

> (a)
> 409.5 410.0 410.5 411.0 411.5 412.0 412.5 413.0 1.95 2.00 2.05 2.10 2.15 2.20

T s ens or = 2.111 K => T = 0.066 K

T s ens or = 2.151 K => T = 0.104 K 

> mov e  to  s ample
> mov e  to  c al
> T
> sensor  (K)
> T im e (m inutes)
> s tp  2.1K
> (b) 300 305 310

R = 303.69 ,i.e. T fi l m = 2.501 KR = 303.225 ,i.e. T fi l m = 2.462 K

> mov e  to  s ample

T = 0.039 K

R = 307.778 ,i.e. T fi l m = 3.092 K mov e  to  c al 

> R ( )
> s tp  2.5K

R = 302.953 ,i.e. T fi l m = 2.443 K

T = 0.619 K

T Hz on/of f 30V (hi gh saturati on l i m i t)       

> (c)
> 390 392 394 396 398 400 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6
> mov e  to  s ample
> mov e  to  c al
> T
> sensor  (K)
> T im e (m inutes)
> s tp  2.5K
> (d)

Figure A.6: (a) time-evolution of resistance R and in-ferred temperature Tfilm of a metallic thin-film test sam-ple and (b) the temperature read-out Tsensor = 2 .11 Kwith the sensor mounted to the sample holder. The dis-crepancy between Tfilm and Tsensor amounts to 100 mK. Vertical displacements lead to significant changes of the sample temperature, however, almost no time lag is ob-served. (c,d) For Tsensor = 2 .5 K the error in temperature amounts to roughly δT = 60 mK. Measurement protocols and low-T characteristics 171 

of 2.5 K gives a similar deviation (however with the op-posite sign) Tsensor −Tfilm = 2 .5 K −2.44 K = 60 mK. Also here basically no thermal hysteresis is observed upon changing the sample position. Furthermore, Fig. A.6(c) quantifies heating by THz irradiation to δT = 40 mK -however only for an intensity 10 times higher than used for spectroscopy. For realistic intensities for spectro-scopic usage, the heating by THz radiation is of the order of a few mK and negligible in this temperature range. We note here again, that the crucial measurements on gran-ular Al discussed in this work were performed with the sensor mounted directly on the sample so that the above considerations and errors in temperature do not apply. 

Cooling efficiency and T -sensing accuracy at the base temperature 

We now prove that the temperature of a thin film sam-ple actually follows the sensor read-out and estimate the error in temperature at lowest temperatures. For val-idation, a sensor was mounted directly on a metallic thin-film sample and another sensor was mounted to the sample holder at the same vertical position. The time evolution of both sensor read-outs as well as the film re-sistance is displayed in Fig. A.7. We can draw several important conclusions • Once the level of liquid He falls below the sam-ple, a reduction in temperature is still observed, despite the poor thermal coupling. This might be attributed to a film of superfluid He thermally an-choring the sample and sensor to the He IVC-bath • The persistent cooling can also be approved for the film itself as evident from the concomitant reduc-tion of surface resistance (Note that here we are in a regime, where R(T ) is reduced with decreasing temperature) • The difference in the temperature readout for the sensors being positioned either on the sample holder or on the thin-film sample amounts to less than 15 mK when the level of liquid He has been re-duced below the sample (i.e. to allow for the opti-cal measurement. The same difference is observed 172 350 352 354 356 358 360 362 364 366 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 2.4 2.6                   

> 1.66 K
> T
> sensor
> (K)
> T ime (minutes)
> sensor A(on thin-film sample)
> sensor B(on sample holder)
> ti m efor THz measurem ent ~4m i n
> 1.58 K
> sensor di fference <15m K
> 160 180 200 220 240
> R ( )

Figure A.7: (a) time-evolution of resistance R and in-ferred temperature Tfilm of a metallic thin-film test sample and temperature measured at the sample position (sen-sor A, black) and on the sample holder (B, red). The total error between actual sample temperature and T -measurement at the sample holder is determined to be less than 23 mK at the lowest temperatures. 

to the 4He normal-superfluid transition at Tλ (thin-film sensor 2.198 K, sample holder sensor 2.183 K) when both sensors are coupled perfectly well by superfluid He. • Taking the mean of both read-outs at the normal-superfluid transition gives a calibration uncertainty of 7.5 mK. Together with the above mentioned read-out difference of 15 mK at the base temperature, we estimate the maximum error to be less than 23 mK between the sensor mounted on the sample holder and the thin film under study at the base temper-ature of 1.65 K. • Down to the lowest temperatures, a change in T

leads to a simultaneously change in R implying a good thermal coupling between sensor on the sam-ple holder and the sample. Bibliography 

[1] T. Lancaster and S. T. Blundell, Quantum Field Theory for the Gifted Amateur , vol. 1. OUP Ox-ford, 2014. [2] L. N. Cooper and D. Feldman, BCS: 50 Years ,vol. 1. World Scientific, 2011. [3] L. P. Gor’kov Sov. Phys. JETP , vol. 7, p. 505, 1958. [4] L. P. Gor’kov Sov. Phys. JETP , vol. 9, p. 1364, 1959. [5] G. Eilenberger, “Transformation of Gor’kov equa-tion for type II superconductors into transport-like equations,” Z. Physik , vol. 214, p. 195, 1968. [6] K. D. Usadel, “Generalized diffusion equation for superconducting alloys,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 25, pp. 507–509, Aug 1970. [7] Y. V. Fominov private communication (2016). [8] Y. V. Fominov, M. Houzet, and L. I. Glaz-man, “Surface impedance of superconductors with weak magnetic impurities,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 84, p. 224517, Dec 2011. [9] J. Rammer and H. Smith, “Quantum field-theoretical methods in transport theory of metals,” 

Rev. Mod. Phys. , vol. 58, pp. 323–359, Apr 1986. [10] A. I. Larkin and Y. N. Ovchinnikov, Nonequilib-rium Superconductivity , vol. 1. Elsevier, 1986. [11] M. V. Feigel’man and M. A. Skvortsov, “Universal broadening of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer co-herence peak of disordered superconducting films,” 

Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 109, p. 147002, Oct 2012. [12] A. Larkin and Y. N. Ovchinnikov, “Density of state in inhomogeneous superconductors,” Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. , vol. 61, pp. 2147–2159, Nov. 1971. [13] V. F. Gantmakher and V. T. Dolgopolov, “Superconductor–insulator quantum phase transi-tion,” Phys.-Usp. , vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 1–49, 2010. 174 

[14] Y.-H. Lin, J. Nelson, and A. M. Goldman, “Superconductivity of very thin films: The superconductor-insulator transition,” Physica CSuperconductivity , vol. 514, pp. 130–141, July 2015. [15] V. Dobrosavljevic, N. Trivedi, and J. M. J. Valles, 

Conductor Insulator Quantum Phase Transitions .OUP Oxford, 2012. [16] E. Abrahams, P. W. Anderson, D. C. Licciardello, and T. V. Ramakrishnan, “Scaling theory of local-ization: Absence of quantum diffusion in two di-mensions,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 42, pp. 673–676, Mar 1979. [17] P. W. Anderson, “Theory of dirty superconduc-tors,” J. Phys. Chem. Solids , vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 26– 30, 1959. [18] P. Lee, “Theory of solids 2.” lecture notes available at http://ocw.mit.edu, Massachusetts Instituite of Technology, 2009. [19] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. , no. 35, p. 1558, 1958. [Sov. Phys. JETP 8,1090-1098 (1959)]. [20] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. , vol. 36, p. 319, 1959. [Sov. Phys. JETP 9,220 (1959)]. [21] A. A. Abrikosov and L. P. Gor’kov Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. , vol. 39, p. 1781, 1960. [Sov. Phys. JETP 12 ,1243 (1961)]. [22] A. M. Finkel’stein, “Suppression of supercon-ductivity in homogeneously disordered systems,” 

Physica B , vol. 197, no. 1, pp. 636–648, 1994. [23] J. M. Graybeal and M. R. Beasley, “Localiza-tion and interaction effects in ultrathin amorphous superconducting films,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 29, pp. 4167–4169, Apr 1984. [24] B. Sacépé, C. Chapelier, T. I. Baturina, V. M. Vi-nokur, M. R. Baklanov, and M. Sanquer, “Disorder induced inhomogeneities of the superconducting BIBLIOGRAPHY 175 

state close to the superconductor-insulator transi-tion,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 101, no. 15, p. 157006, 2008. [25] P. Szabó, T. Samuely, V. Hašková, J. Kačmarčík, M. Žemlička, M. Grajcar, J. G. Rodrigo, and P. Samuely, “Fermionic scenario for the destruc-tion of superconductivity in ultrathin MoC films evidenced by STM measurements,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 93, p. 014505, Jan 2016. [26] M. Žemlička, P. Neilinger, M. Trgala, M. Rehák, D. Manca, M. Grajcar, P. Szabó, P. Samuely, i. c. v. Gaži, U. Hübner, V. M. Vinokur, and E. Il’ichev, “Finite quasiparticle lifetime in dis-ordered superconductors,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 92, p. 224506, Dec 2015. [27] M. P. A. Fisher, G. Grinstein, and S. M. Girvin, “Presence of quantum diffusion in two dimen-sions: Universal resistance at the superconductor-insulator transition,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 64, pp. 587–590, Jan 1990. [28] D. B. Haviland, Y. Liu, and A. M. Goldman, “On-set of superconductivity in the two-dimensional limit,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 62, pp. 2180–2183, May 1989. [29] A. Yazdani and A. Kapitulnik, “Superconducting-insulating transition in two-dimensional a-MoGe thin films,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 74, pp. 3037– 3040, Apr 1995. [30] A. Kamlapure, T. Das, S. C. Ganguli, J. B. Par-mar, B. S., and P. Raychaudhuri, “Emergence of nanoscale inhomogeneity in the superconducting state of a homogeneously disordered conventional superconductor,” Sci. Rep. , vol. 3, p. 2979, 2013. [31] A. Ghosal, M. Randeria, and N. Trivedi, “Inhomo-geneous pairing in highly disordered s -wave super-conductors,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 65, p. 014501, Nov 2001. [32] A. Ghosal, M. Randeria, and N. Trivedi, “Role of spatial amplitude fluctuations in highly disordered 176 

s-wave superconductors,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 81, pp. 3940–3943, Nov 1998. [33] D. Sherman, G. Kopnov, D. Shahar, and A. Fryd-man, “Measurement of a superconducting energy gap in a homogeneously amorphous insulator,” 

Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 108, p. 177006, Apr 2012. [34] D. Sherman, B. Gorshunov, S. Poran, N. Trivedi, E. Farber, M. Dressel, and A. Frydman, “Effect of Coulomb interactions on the disorder-driven superconductor-insulator transition,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 89, p. 035149, Jan 2014. [35] B. Sacépé, B., C. Chapelier, T. I. Baturina, V. M. Vinokur, M. R. Baklanov, and M. Sanquer, “Pseu-dogap in an thin film of a conventional supercon-ductor,” Nat. Commun. , vol. 1, p. 140, 2010. [36] S. Benhabib, A. Sacuto, M. Civelli, I. Paul, M. Cazayous, Y. Gallais, M.-A. Méasson, R. D. Zhong, J. Schneeloch, G. D. Gu, D. Col-son, and A. Forget, “Collapse of the normal-state pseudogap at a Lifshitz transition in the Bi 2Sr 2CaCuO 8+ δ cuprate superconductor,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 114, p. 147001, Apr 2015. [37] V. J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, “Importance of phase fluctuations in superconductors with small superfluid density,” Nature , vol. 374, pp. 434 – 437, March 1994. [38] P. C. J. J. Coumou, E. F. C. Driessen, J. Bueno, C. Chapelier, and T. M. Klapwijk, “Electrody-namic response and local tunneling spectroscopy of strongly disordered superconducting TiN films,” 

Phys. Rev. B , vol. 88, p. 180505, Nov 2013. [39] E. F. C. Driessen, P. C. J. J. Coumou, R. R. Tromp, P. J. de Visser, and T. M. Klapwijk, “Strongly disordered tin and NbTiN s-wave su-perconductors probed by microwave electrodynam-ics,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 109, p. 107003, Sep 2012. [40] M. Chand, Transport, magneto-transport and elec-tron tunneling studies on disordered superconduc-tors . PhD thesis, Tata Insitute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, 2012. BIBLIOGRAPHY 177 

[41] P. Raychaudhuri private communication, 2015. [42] M. Tinkham, Introduction to Superconductivity .Dover Publications, New York, 2 ed., 2004. [43] S. Gazit, Dynamics Near Quantum Criticality in Two Space Dimensions . Springer Theses, 2015. [44] S. P. Chockalingam, M. Chand, J. Jesudasan, V. Tripathi, and P. Raychaudhuri, “Superconduct-ing properties and Hall effect of epitaxial NbN thin films,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 77, p. 214503, Jun 2008. [45] K. Sengupta and N. Dupuis, “Mott-insulator-to-superfluid transition in the Bose-Hubbard model: A strong-coupling approach,” Phys. Rev. A,vol. 71, p. 033629, Mar 2005. [46] M. P. A. Fisher, P. B. Weichman, G. Grin-stein, and D. S. Fisher, “Boson localization and the superfluid-insulator transition,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 40, pp. 546–570, Jul 1989. [47] A. Auerbach private communication (2015). [48] S. Sachdev, Quantum Phase Transitions , vol. 1. Cambridge University Press, 1999. [49] S. Chakravarty, B. I. Halperin, and D. R. Nel-son, “Two-dimensional quantum Heisenberg anti-ferromagnet at low temperatures,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 39, pp. 2344–2371, Feb 1989. [50] D. Podolsky, A. Auerbach, and D. P. Arovas, “Vis-ibility of the amplitude (Higgs) mode in condensed matter,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 84, p. 174522, Nov 2011. [51] S. Gazit, D. Podolsky, and A. Auerbach, “Fate of the Higgs mode near quantum criticality,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 110, p. 140401, Apr 2013. [52] S. Gazit, D. Podolsky, A. Auerbach, and D. P. Arovas, “Dynamics and conductivity near quan-tum criticality,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 88, p. 235108, Dec 2013. 178 

[53] M. Mondal, A. Kamlapure, S. C. Ganguli, J. Je-sudasan, V. Bagwe, L. Benfatto, and P. Ray-chaudhuri, “Enhancement of the finite-frequency superfluid response in the pseudogap regime of strongly disordered superconducting films,” Sci. Rep. , vol. 3, p. 1357, 2013. [54] S. P. Chockalingam, M. Chand, A. Kamlapure, J. Jesudasan, A. Mishra, V. Tripathi, and P. Ray-chaudhuri, “Tunneling studies in a homogeneously disordered s-wave superconductor: NbN,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 79, p. 094509, Mar 2009. [55] M. Chand, G. Saraswat, A. Kamlapure, M. Mon-dal, S. Kumar, J. Jesudasan, V. Bagwe, L. Ben-fatto, V. Tripathi, and P. Raychaudhuri, “Phase diagram of the strongly disordered s-wave super-conductor NbN close to the metal-insulator transi-tion,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 85, p. 014508, Jan 2012. [56] M. Swanson, Y. L. Loh, M. Randeria, and N. Trivedi, “Dynamical conductivity across the disorder-tuned superconductor-insulator transi-tion,” Phys. Rev. X , vol. 4, p. 021007, Apr 2014. [57] M. Dressel, N. Kasper, K. Petukhov, B. Gor-shunov, G. Grüner, M. Huth, and H. Adrian, “Na-ture of Heavy Quasiparticles in Magnetically Or-dered Heavy Fermions UPd 2Al 3 and UPt 3,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 88, p. 186404, Apr 2002. [58] N. Trivedi private communication (2016). [59] D. Sherman, U. S. Pracht, B. Gorshunov, S. Po-ran, J. Jesudasan, M. Chand, P. Raychaudhuri, M. Swanson, N. Trivedi, A. Auerbach, M. Schef-fler, and M. Dressel, “The Higgs mode in disor-dered superconductors close to a quantum phase transition,” Nat. Phys. , vol. 11, pp. 188–192, 2015. [60] N. Prokof’ev and B. Svistunov, “Superfluid-insulator transition in commensurate disordered bosonic systems: Large-scale worm algorithm sim-ulations,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 92, p. 015703, Jan 2004. [61] T. Cea, C. Castellani, G. Seibold, and L. Ben-fatto, “Nonrelativistic dynamics of the amplitude BIBLIOGRAPHY 179 

(Higgs) mode in superconductors,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 115, p. 157002, Oct 2015. [62] T. Cea, D. Bucheli, G. Seibold, L. Benfatto, J. Lorenzana, and C. Castellani, “Optical excita-tion of phase modes in strongly disordered super-conductors,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 89, p. 174506, May 2014. [63] B. Cheng, L. Wu, N. J. Laurita, H. Singh, M. Chand, P. Raychaudhuri, and N. P. Armitage, “Anomalous gap-edge dissipation in disordered su-perconductors on the brink of localization,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 93, p. 180511, May 2016. [64] R. Matsunaga, Y. I. Hamada, K. Makise, Y. Uzawa, H. Terai, Z. Wang, and R. Shimano, “Higgs amplitude mode in the BCS superconduc-tors Nb 1−xTi xN induced by terahertz pulse exci-tation,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 111, p. 057002, Jul 2013. [65] D. Manske private communication (2016). [66] P. Carruthers and M. M. Nieto, “Phase and angle variables in quantum mechanics,” Rev. Mod. Phys. ,vol. 40, pp. 411–440, Apr 1968. [67] J. Mayoh and A. M. García-García, “Strong en-hancement of bulk superconductivity by engi-neered nanogranularity,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 90, p. 134513, Oct 2014. [68] A. M. García-García, J. D. Urbina, E. A. Yuzbashyan, K. Richter, and B. L. Altshuler, “Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory of finite-size su-perconducting metallic grains,” Phys. Rev. Lett. ,vol. 100, p. 187001, May 2008. [69] H. Olofsson, S. Åberg, and P. Leboeuf, “Semiclas-sical theory of Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer pairing-gap fluctuations,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 100, p. 037005, Jan 2008. [70] J. M. Blatt and C. J. Thompson, “Shape reso-nances in superconducting thin films,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 10, pp. 332–334, Apr 1963. 180 

[71] R. H. Parmenter, “Characteristic parameters of a granular superconductor,” Phys. Rev. , vol. 167, pp. 387–392, Mar 1968. [72] R. H. Parmenter, “Size effect in a granular super-conductor,” Phys. Rev. , vol. 166, pp. 392–396, Feb 1968. [73] S. Bose, A. M. García-García, M. M. Ugeda, J. D. Urbina, C. H. Michaelis, I. Brihuega, and K. Kern, “Observation of shell effects in superconducting nanoparticles of Sn,” Nat Mater , vol. 9, pp. 550– 554, 07 2010. [74] N. Bachar, Spin-flip scattering in superconducting granular Aluminum films . PhD thesis, Tel Aviv University, 2014. [75] G. Deutscher, M. Gershenson, E. Grunbaum, and I. Y., “Granular superconducting films,” Journal of Vacuum Science and Technology , vol. 10, p. 697, Sept. 1973. [76] Y. Shapira and G. Deutscher, “Metal-insulator transition in composite thin films,” Thin Dolid Films , vol. 87, pp. 444–450, Apr. 1968. [77] G. Deutscher, H. Fenichel, M. Gershenson, E. Grunbaum, and Z. Ovadyahu, “Transition to zero dimensionality in granular aluminum super-conducting films,” Journal of Low Temperature Physics , vol. 10, pp. 231–234, Jan. 1973. [78] N. Bachar, S. Lerer, A. Levy, S. Hacohen-Gourgy, B. Almog, H. Saadaoui, Z. Salman, E. Morenzoni, and G. Deutscher, “Mott transition in granular aluminum,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 91, p. 041123, Jan 2015. [79] D. N. Basov, R. D. Averitt, D. van der Marel, M. Dressel, and K. Haule, “Electrodynamics of correlated electron materials,” Rev. Mod. Phys. ,vol. 83, pp. 471–541, Jun 2011. [80] N. D. Mathur, F. M. Frosche, S. R. Julian, I. R. Walker, D. M. Freye, R. K. W. Haselwimmer, and G. G. Lonzarich, “Magnetically mediated super-conductivity in heavy fermion compounds,” Na-ture , vol. 394, no. 6688, pp. 39–43, 1998. BIBLIOGRAPHY 181 

[81] A. D. Caviglia, S. Gariglio, N. Reyren, D. Jaccard, T. Schneider, M. Gabay, S. Thiel, G. Hammerl, J. Mannhart, and J. M. Triscone, “Electric field control of the LaAlO 3/SrTiO 3 interface ground state,” Nature , pp. 624–627, July 2008. [82] M. Dumm, D. Faltermeier, N. Drichko, M. Dres-sel, C. Mézière, and P. Batail, “Bandwidth-controlled Mott transition in κ−(BEDT-TTF) 2Cu[N(CN) 2]Br xCl 1−x: Optical studies of correlated carriers,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 79, p. 195106, May 2009. [83] N. Bachar, S. Lerer, S. Hacohen-Gourgy, B. Almog, and G. Deutscher, “Kondo-like behavior near the metal-to-insulator transition of nanoscale granular aluminum,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 87, p. 214512, Jun 2013. [84] S. Lerer, N. Bachar, G. Deutscher, and Y. Dagan, “Nernst effect beyond the coherence critical field of a nanoscale granular superconductor,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 90, p. 214521, Dec 2014. [85] A. I. Larkin and A. Varlamov, Theory of Fluctu-ations in Superconductors . Clarendon Press, Ox-ford, 2005. [86] S. Caprara, M. Grilli, B. Leridon, and J. Lesueur, “Extended paraconductivity regime in underdoped cuprates,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 72, p. 104509, Sep 2005. [87] A. Levchenko, M. R. Norman, and A. A. Varlamov, “Nernst effect from fluctuating pairs in the pseudo-gap phase of the cuprates,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 83, p. 020506, Jan 2011. [88] D. C. Mattis and J. Bardeen, “Theory of the anomalous skin effect in normal and superconduct-ing metals,” Phys. Rev. , vol. 111, no. 2, pp. 412– 417, 1958. [89] U. S. Pracht, J. Simmendinger, M. Dressel, R. Endo, T. Watashige, Y. Hanaoka, M. Shi-mozawa, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and M. Scheffler, “Charge carrier dynamics of the 182 

heavy-fermion metal CeCoIn 5 probed by THz spec-troscopy,” Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials , vol. 400, pp. 31 – 35, 2016. [90] R. Crane, N. P. Armitage, A. Johansson, G. Sam-bandamurthy, D. Shahar, and G. Grüner, “Sur-vival of superconducting correlations across the two-dimensional superconductor-insulator transi-tion: A finite-frequency study,” Phys. Rev. B,vol. 75, p. 184530, May 2007. [91] J. Corson, J. Orenstein, S. Oh, J. O’Donnell, and J. N. Eckstein, “Nodal quasiparticle lifetime in the superconducting state of bi 2sr 2cacu 2O8+ δ ,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 85, pp. 2569–2572, Sep 2000. [92] S. Barabash, D. Stroud, and I.-J. Hwang, “Con-ductivity due to classical phase fluctuations in a model for high-Tc superconductors,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 61, pp. R14924–R14927, Jun 2000. [93] L. Benfatto, C. Castellani, and T. Giamarchi, “Broadening of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless superconducting transition by inhomogeneity and finite-size effects,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 80, p. 214506, Dec 2009. [94] G. Deutscher and S. A. Dodds, “Critical-field anisotropy and fluctuation conductivity in gran-ular aluminum films,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 16, pp. 3936–3942, Nov 1977. [95] K. K. Likharev, “Superconducting weak links,” 

Rev. Mod. Phys. , vol. 51, pp. 101–159, jan 1979. [96] D. Abraham, G. Deutscher, R. Rosenbaum, and S. Wolf, “Magnetic penetration depth in granu-lar Al-Al 2O3 films,” J. Phys. Coll. Paris (France) ,vol. 39, pp. 586–587, 1978. [97] M. Gershenson and W. McLean, “Magnetic suscep-tibility of superconducting granular aluminum,” 

Low Temp. Phys. , vol. 47, no. 1-2, pp. 123–136, 1982. [98] V. B. Geshkenbein, L. B. Ioffe, and A. I. Larkin, “Superconductivity in a system with preformed pairs,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 55, pp. 3173–3180, Feb 1997. BIBLIOGRAPHY 183 

[99] A. Perali, C. Castellani, C. Di Castro, M. Grilli, E. Piegari, and A. A. Varlamov, “Two-gap model for underdoped cuprate superconductors,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 62, pp. R9295–R9298, Oct 2000. [100] J. Ranninger, J. M. Robin, and M. Eschrig, “Su-perfluid precursor effects in a model of hybridized bosons and fermions,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 74, pp. 4027–4030, May 1995. [101] J. Ranninger and J. M. Robin, “Manifestations of the pseudogap in the boson-fermion model for Bose-Einstein-condensation-driven supercon-ductivity,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 53, pp. R11961– R11963, May 1996. [102] G. Seibold, L. Benfatto, and C. Castellani, “On the application of mattis-bardeen theory in strongly disordered superconductors.” arXiv:1702.01610, 2017. [103] B. L. Altshuler, A. G. Aronov, A. L. Efros, and M. Pollak, eds., Electron-Electron interactions in disordered systems . North Holland: Elsevier, 1985. [104] M. Hashimoto, I. M. Vishik, R.-H. He, T. P. De-vereaux, and Z.-X. Shen, “Energy gaps in high-transition-temperature cuprate superconductors,” 

Nature Physics , vol. 10, pp. 483–495, 2014. [105] H. Aoki, “Critical behaviour of extended states in disordered systems,” Journal of Physics C: Solid State Physics , vol. 16, pp. 205–208, 1983. [106] M. V. Feigelman, L. B. Ioffe, V. E. Kravtsov, and E. A. Yuzbashyan, “Eigenfunction fractality and pseudogap state near the superconductor-insulator transition,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 98, p. 027001, Jan 2007. [107] M. Feigelman, L. Ioffe, V. Kravtsov, and E. Cuevas, “Fractal superconductivity near local-ization threshold,” Annals of Physics , vol. 325, no. 7, pp. 1390 – 1478, 2010. July 2010 Special Issue. [108] J. Mayoh and A. M. García-García, “Global crit-ical temperature in disordered superconductors 184 

with weak multifractality,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 92, p. 174526, Nov 2015. [109] A. M. García-García private communication (2016). [110] P. W. Anderson, “Absence of Diffusion in Certain Random Lattices,” Phys. Rev. , vol. 109, pp. 1492– 1505, Mar 1958. [111] R. S. Schrieffer, Theory of Superconductivity . Red-wood City, CA: Addison-Wesley, 1964. [112] T. Grenet, J. Delahaye, M. Sabra, and F. Gay, “Anomalous electric-field effect and glassy be-haviour in granular aluminium: electron glass?,” in 12th International Conference on Transport in Interacting Disordered Systems (TIDS-12) , vol. 5, (Marburg, Germany), p. 680, Wiley, Aug. 2007. [113] J. Delahaye and T. Grenet, “Electrical glassy be-havior in granular aluminium thin films,” in 5th International Conference on Electronic Crystals (ECRYS) , vol. 404, (Cargèse, France), p. 470, El-sevier, Aug. 2008. [114] J. Delahaye and T. Grenet, “Ageing in granular aluminium insulating thin films,” in 13th Confer-ence on Transport and Interactions in Disordered Systems (TIDS 13) , vol. 18, (Rackeve, Hungary), p. 830, Wiley, Aug. 2009. [115] J. Delahaye, J. Honoré, and T. Grenet, “Slow Con-ductance Relaxation in Insulating Granular Al: Evidence for Screening Effects.,” Physical Review Letters , vol. 106, p. 186602, May 2011. [116] M. Ma and P. A. Lee, “Localized superconduc-tors,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 32, pp. 5658–5667, Nov 1985. [117] G. Lemarié, A. Kamlapure, D. Bucheli, L. Ben-fatto, J. Lorenzana, G. Seibold, S. C. Ganguli, P. Raychaudhuri, and C. Castellani, “Univer-sal scaling of the order-parameter distribution in strongly disordered superconductors,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 87, p. 184509, May 2013. BIBLIOGRAPHY 185 

[118] T. V. Ramakrishnan, “Superconductivity in dis-ordered thin films,” Physica Scripta , vol. T27, pp. 24–30, 1989. [119] L. Benfatto private communication (2016). [120] H. Shiba, “Classical spins in superconductors,” 

Prog. Theor. Phys. , vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 435–451, 1968. [121] A. I. Rusinov, “On the theory of gapless supercon-ductivity in alloys containing paramagnetic impu-rites,” Sov. Phys. JETP , vol. 29, p. 1101, 1969. [122] A. V. Balatsky, I. Vekhter, and J.-X. Zhu, “Impurity-induced states in conventional and un-conventional superconductors,” Rev. Mod. Phys. ,vol. 78, pp. 373–433, May 2006. [123] M. Strongin and O. F. Kammerer, “Superconduc-tive phenomena in ultrathin films,” J. Appl. Phys. ,vol. 39, p. 2509, 1968. [124] H. Sixl, J. Gromer, and H. C. Wolf, “Tunnelspek-troskopie an dünnsten supraleitenden Aluminium-, Indium- und Bleischichten,” Z. Naturforsch. ,vol. 29a, pp. 319–331, 1974. [125] A. Bianchi, R. Movshovich, C. Capan, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, “Possible Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov Superconducting State in CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 91, p. 187004, Oct 2003. [126] J. Kondo, “Resistance minimum in dilute magnetic alloys,” Progress of Theoretical Physics , vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 37–49, 1964. [127] N. F. Mott, “Rare-earth compounds with mixed valencies,” Philosophical Magazine , vol. 30, no. 2, p. 403, 1974. [128] S. Doniach, “Kondo lattice and weak antiferromag-netism,” Physica , vol. 91B, p. 231, 1977. [129] V. A. Sidorov, M. Nicklas, P. G. Pagliuso, J. L. Sarrao, Y. Bang, A. V. Balatsky, and J. D. Thomp-son, “Superconductivity and quantum criticality in 

CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 89, p. 157004, Sep 2002. 186 

[130] S. Nakatsuji, S. Yeo, L. Balicas, Z. Fisk, P. Schlottmann, P. G. Pagliuso, N. O. Moreno, J. L. Sarrao, and J. D. Thompson, “Intersite Cou-pling Effects in a Kondo Lattice,” Phys. Rev. Lett. ,vol. 89, p. 106402, Aug 2002. [131] J. S. Kim, J. Alwood, G. R. Stewart, J. L. Sar-rao, and J. D. Thompson, “Specific heat in high magnetic fields and non-Fermi-liquid behavior in Ce Me In 5 (Me =Ir, Co),” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 64, p. 134524, Sep 2001. [132] Y. Kawasaki, S. Kawasaki, M. Yashima, T. Mito, G. qing Zheng, Y. Kitaoka, H. Shishido, R. Set-tai, Y. Haga, and Y. ÅŒnuki, “Anisotropic Spin Fluctuations in Heavy-Fermion Superconductor CeCoIn 5: In-NQR and Co-NMR Studies,” Jour-nal of the Physical Society of Japan , vol. 72, no. 9, pp. 2308–2311, 2003. [133] F. Ronning, C. Capan, A. Bianchi, R. Movshovich, A. Lacerda, M. F. Hundley, J. D. Thompson, P. G. Pagliuso, and J. L. Sarrao, “Field-tuned quantum critical point in CeCoIn 5 near the superconduct-ing upper critical field,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 71, p. 104528, Mar 2005. [134] J. G. Donath, F. Steglich, E. D. Bauer, J. L. Sar-rao, and P. Gegenwart, “Dimensional crossover of quantum critical behavior in CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 100, p. 136401, Mar 2008. [135] S. Singh, C. Capan, M. Nicklas, M. Rams, A. Gladun, H. Lee, J. F. DiTusa, Z. Fisk, F. Steglich, and S. Wirth, “Probing the Quantum Critical Behavior of CeCoIn 5 via Hall Effect Mea-surements,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 98, p. 057001, Jan 2007. [136] S. Zaum, K. Grube, R. Schäfer, E. D. Bauer, J. D. Thompson, and H. v. Löhneysen, “To-wards the Identification of a Quantum Critical Line in the ( p, b) Phase Diagram of CeCoIn 5 with Thermal-Expansion Measurements,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 106, p. 087003, Feb 2011. [137] A. Malinowski, M. F. Hundley, C. Capan, F. Ron-ning, R. Movshovich, N. O. Moreno, J. L. Sarrao, BIBLIOGRAPHY 187 

and J. D. Thompson, “ c-axis magnetotransport in 

CeCoin 5,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 72, p. 184506, Nov 2005. [138] Y. Tokiwa, E. D. Bauer, and P. Gegenwart, “Zero-field quantum critical point in CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 111, p. 107003, Sep 2013. [139] R. J. Ormeno, A. Sibley, C. E. Gough, S. Sebas-tian, and I. R. Fisher, “Microwave conductivity and penetration depth in the heavy fermion su-perconductor cecoin 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 88, p. 047005, Jan 2002. [140] I. Nevirkovets, O. Chernyashevskyy, C. Petrovic, J. Ketterson, and B. K. Sarma, “Microwave ab-sorption measurements of the heavy-fermion su-perconductor CeCoIn 5,” Physica C: Superconduc-tivity , vol. 468, no. 5, pp. 432 – 434, 2008. [141] G. V. Sudhakar Rao, S. Ocadlik, M. Reedyk, and C. Petrovic, “Low-frequency excitation in the opti-cal properties of superconducting CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 80, p. 064512, Aug 2009. [142] C. J. S. Truncik, W. A. Huttema, P. J. Turner, S. Özcan, N. C. Murphy, P. R. Carrière, E. The-walt, K. J. Morse, A. J. Koenig, J. L. Sarrao, and D. M. Broun, “Nodal quasiparticle dynamics in the heavy fermion superconductor CeCoIn 5 revealed by precision microwave spectroscopy,” Nat. Com-mun. , vol. 4, p. 2477, 2013. [143] E. J. Singley, D. N. Basov, E. D. Bauer, and M. B. Maple, “Optical conductivity of the heavy fermion superconductor CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 65, p. 161101, Apr 2002. [144] F. P. Mena, D. van der Marel, and J. L. Sar-rao, “Optical conductivity of Ce M In 5 (M =Co, Rh, Ir),” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 72, p. 045119, Jul 2005. [145] M. Scheffler, K. Schlegel, C. Clauss, D. Hafner, C. Fella, M. Dressel, M. Jourdan, J. Sichelschmidt, C. Krellner, C. Geibel, and F. Steglich, “Microwave spectroscopy on heavy-fermion systems: Probing the dynamics of charges and magnetic moments,” 188 

Phys. Status Solidi B , vol. 250, no. 3, pp. 439–449, 2013. [146] M. Scheffler, M. Dressel, M. Jourdan, and H. Adrian, “Extremely slow drude relaxation of correlated electrons,” Nature (London) , vol. 438, no. 7071, pp. 1135–1137, 2005. [147] J. P. Ostertag, M. Scheffler, M. Dressel, and M. Jourdan, “Terahertz conductivity of the heavy-fermion compound UNi 2Al 3,” Phys. Rev. B,vol. 84, p. 035132, Jul 2011. [148] M. Scheffler, T. Weig, M. Dressel, H. Shishido, Y. Mizukami, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, “Terahertz Conductivity of the Heavy-Fermion State in CeCoIn 5,” Journal of the Physical Society of Japan , vol. 82, no. 4, p. 043712, 2013. [149] M. Dressel and G. Grüner, Electrodynamics of Solids - Optical Properties of Electrons in Matter .Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2002. [150] W. Götze and P. Wölfle, “Homogeneous dynami-cal conductivity of simple metals,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 6, pp. 1226–1238, Aug 1972. [151] R. Kubo, “Statistical-mechanical theory of irre-versible processes. i. general theory and simple ap-plications to magnetic and conduction problems,” 

J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. , vol. 12, pp. 570–586, 1957. [152] D. N. Basov, R. D. Averitt, D. van der Marel, M. Dressel, and K. Haule, “Electrodynamics of correlated electron materials,” Rev. Mod. Phys. ,vol. 83, pp. 471–541, Jun 2011. [153] P. Coleman, C. Pepin, Q. Si, and R. Ramaza-shvili, “How do Fermi liquids get heavy and die?,” 

J. Phys.: Condens. Matter , vol. 13, pp. 723–738, 2001. [154] X. Deng, A. Sternbach, K. Haule, D. N. Basov, and G. Kotliar, “Shining Light on Transition-Metal Oxides: Unveiling the Hidden Fermi Liquid,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 113, p. 246404, Dec 2014. BIBLIOGRAPHY 189 

[155] M. Shimozawa, S. K. Goh, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, “From Kondo Lattices to Kondo Su-perlattices,” Rep. Prog. Phys. , vol. 79, p. 074503, 2016. [156] J. Paglione, T. A. Sayles, P.-C. Ho, J. R. Jeffries, and M. B. Maple, “Incoherent non-Fermi-liquid scattering in a Kondo lattice,” Nature Physics ,vol. 3, pp. 703–706, October 2007. [157] A. Ruckenstein and C. Varma, “A theory of marginal Fermi-liquids,” Physica C: Superconduc-tivity , vol. 185, pp. 134 – 140, 1991. [158] C. Varma, “Towards a theory of the marginal Fermi-liquid state,” Journal of Physics and Chem-istry of Solids , vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 1081 – 1084, 1993. [159] P. Wölfle private communication (2016). [160] F. P. Mena, D. van der Marel, and J. L. Sar-rao, “Optical conductivity of Ce M In 5 (M =Co, Rh, Ir),” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 72, p. 045119, Jul 2005. [161] L. Landau, “Theory of a Fermi Liquid,” Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. , vol. 30, p. 1058, 1956. [162] C. Berthod, J. Mravlje, X. Deng, R. Žitko, D. van der Marel, and A. Georges, “Non-Drude universal scaling laws for the optical response of lo-cal Fermi liquids,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 87, p. 115109, Mar 2013. [163] J. Mravlje private communication (2016). [164] J. Mravlje, M. Aichhorn, T. Miyake, K. Haule, G. Kotliar, and A. Georges, “Coherence-incoherence crossover and the mass-renormalization puzzles in Sr 2RuO 3,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 106, p. 096401, Mar 2011. [165] P. B. Allen, “Electron self-energy and generalized Drude formula for infrared conductivity of metals,” 

Phys. Rev. B , vol. 92, p. 054305, Aug 2015. [166] D. Stricker, J. Mravlje, C. Berthod, R. Fittipaldi, A. Vecchione, A. Georges, and D. van der Marel, 190 

“Optical Response of Sr 2RuO 3 Reveals Univer-sal Fermi-Liquid Scaling and Quasiparticles Be-yond Landau Theory,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 113, p. 087404, Aug 2014. [167] A. C. Jacko, J. O. Fjrestad, and B. J. Powell, “A unified explanation of the Kadowaki-Woods ra-tio on strongly correlated metals,” Nature Physics ,vol. 5, pp. 422–425, 2009. [168] P. Phillips, “Mottness collapse and T-linear resis-tivity in cuprate superconductors,” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences ,vol. 369, no. 1941, pp. 1574–1598, 2011. [169] A. Auerbach and K. Levin, “Kondo Bosons and the Kondo Lattice: Microscopic Basis for the Heavy Fermi Liquid,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 57, pp. 877– 880, Aug 1986. [170] M. Prasanta, Heavy-Fermion Systems . Elsevier, 2008. [171] V. J. Emery and S. A. Kivelson, “Superconduc-tivity in bad metals,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 74, pp. 3253–3256, Apr 1995. [172] O. Gunnarsson, M. Calandra, and J. E. Han, “ Col-loquium : Saturation of electrical resistivity,” Rev. Mod. Phys. , vol. 75, pp. 1085–1099, Oct 2003. [173] N. E. Hussey, K. Takenaka, and H. Takagi, “Uni-versality of the Mott-Ioffe-Regel limit in metals,” 

Philosophical Magazine , vol. 84, no. 27, pp. 2847– 2864, 2004. [174] X. Deng, J. Mravlje, R. Žitko, M. Ferrero, G. Kotliar, and A. Georges, “How bad metals turn good: Spectroscopic signatures of resilient quasi-particles,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 110, p. 086401, Feb 2013. [175] W. Xu, K. Haule, and G. Kotliar, “Hidden Fermi Liquid, Scattering Rate Saturation, and Nernst Ef-fect: A Dynamical Mean-Field Theory Perspec-tive,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 111, p. 036401, Jul 2013. BIBLIOGRAPHY 191 

[176] P. W. Anderson, “Hidden Fermi liquid: The se-cret of high-Tc cuprates,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 78, p. 174505, Nov 2008. [177] P. A. Casey and P. W. Anderson, “Hidden fermi liquid: Self-consistent theory for the normal state of high-Tc superconductors,” Phys. Rev. Lett. ,vol. 106, p. 097002, Feb 2011. [178] J. Paglione, M. A. Tanatar, D. G. Hawthorn, E. Boaknin, R. W. Hill, F. Ronning, M. Suther-land, L. Taillefer, C. Petrovic, and P. C. Can-field, “Field-Induced Quantum Critical Point in CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 91, p. 246405, Dec 2003. [179] U. S. Pracht, M. Dressel, P. MravlScheffler, M.”olfle, R. Endo, T. Watashige, Y. Hanoka, M. Shimozawa, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, Y. Matsuda, and M. Scheffler, “Resilient heavy quasiparticles in CeCoIn 5: Indications from dy-namical response for a hidden Fermi liquid.” in preparation (2017). [180] G. Baym and C. Pethick, Landau Fermi-Liquid Theory: Concepts and Applications . WILEY-VCH Verlag, 2004. [181] D. Vollhardt and P. Wölfle, The Superfluid Phases of Helium 3 . Dover Publications, New York, 2013. [182] Q. Y. Chen, D. F. Xu, X. H. Niu, J. Jiang, R. Peng, H. Xu, C. H. P. Wen, Z. F. Ding, K. Huang, L. Shu, Y. J. Zhang, H. Lee, V. N. Strocov, M. Shi, F. Bisti, T. Schmitt, Y. B. Huang, P. Dudin, X. C. Lai, S. Kirchner, H. Q. Yuan, and D. L. Feng, “Direct observation of how the heavy fermion state devel-ops in CeCoIn 5.” arXiv:1610.06724. [183] P. Coleman, Introduction to Many-Body Physics .Cambridge University Press, 1 ed., 2015. [184] D. Hall, E. C. Palm, T. P. Murphy, S. W. Tozer, Z. Fisk, U. Alver, R. G. Goodrich, J. L. Sarrao, P. G. Pagliuso, and T. Ebihara, “Fermi surface of the heavy-fermion superconductor CeCoIn 5: The de Haas-van Alphen effect in the normal state,” 

Phys. Rev. B , vol. 64, p. 212508, Nov 2001. 192 

[185] C. Capan, Y.-J. Jo, L. Balicas, R. G. Goodrich, J. F. DiTusa, I. Vekhter, T. P. Murphy, A. D. Bianchi, L. D. Pham, J. Y. Cho, J. Y. Chan, D. P. Young, and Z. Fisk, “Fermi surface evolu-tion through a heavy-fermion superconductor-to-antiferromagnet transition: de Haas-van Alphen effect in Cd-substituted CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. B ,vol. 82, p. 035112, Jul 2010. [186] H. Shishido, R. Settai, S. Hashimoto, Y. In-ada, and Y. ÅŒnuki, “De Haas van Alphen ef-fect of CeRhIn 5 and CeCoIn 5 under pressure,” 

Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials ,vol. 272â€“276, Part 1, pp. 225 – 226, 2004. Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Mag-netism (ICM 2003). [187] J. Xiao-Wen, L. Yan, Y. Li, H. Jun-Feng, Z. Lin, Z. Wen-Tao, L. Hai-Yun, L. Guo-Dong, H. Shao-Long, Z. Jun, L. Wei, W. Yue, D. Xiao-Li, S. Li-Ling, W. Gui-Ling, Z. Yong, W. Xiao-Yang, P. Qin-Jun, W. Zhi-Min, Z. Shen-Jin, Y. Feng, X. Zu-Yan, C. Chuang-Tian, and Z. Xing-Jiang, “Growth, Characterization and Fermi Surface of Heavy Fermion CeCoIn 5 Superconductor,” Chi-nese Physics Letters , vol. 28, no. 5, p. 057401, 2011. [188] C. H. Booth, T. Durakiewicz, C. Capan, D. Hurt, A. D. Bianchi, J. J. Joyce, and Z. Fisk, “Elec-tronic structure and f -orbital occupancy in Yb-substituted CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 83, p. 235117, Jun 2011. [189] A. Koitzsch, S. Borisenko, D. Inosov, J. Geck, V. Zabolotnyy, H. Shiozawa, M. Knupfer, J. Fink, B. BÃ¼chner, E. Bauer, J. Sarrao, and R. Fol-lath, “Observing the heavy fermions in CeCoIn 5 by angle-resolved photoemission,” Physica C: Super-conductivity and its Applications , vol. 460â€“462, Part 1, pp. 666 – 667, 2007. Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Materials and Mecha-nisms of Superconductivity and High Temperature SuperconductorsM2S-HTSC {VIII}. [190] A. Koitzsch, T. K. Kim, U. Treske, M. Knupfer, B. Büchner, M. Richter, I. Opahle, R. Follath, BIBLIOGRAPHY 193 

E. D. Bauer, and J. L. Sarrao, “Band-dependent emergence of heavy quasiparticles in CeCoIn 5,” 

Phys. Rev. B , vol. 88, p. 035124, Jul 2013. [191] R. Küchler, N. Oeschler, P. Gegenwart, T. Ci-chorek, K. Neumaier, O. Tegus, C. Geibel, J. A. Mydosh, F. Steglich, L. Zhu, and Q. Si, “Diver-gence of the Grüneisen Ratio at Quantum Critical Points in Heavy Fermion Metals,” Phys. Rev. Lett. ,vol. 91, p. 066405, Aug 2003. [192] R. Küchler, P. Gegenwart, J. Custers, O. Stock-ert, N. Caroca-Canales, C. Geibel, J. G. Sereni, and F. Steglich, “Quantum criticality in the cu-bic heavy-fermion system CeIn 3−xSn x,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 96, p. 256403, Jun 2006. [193] J. A. Hertz, “Quantum critical phenomena,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 14, pp. 1165–1184, Aug 1976. [194] A. J. Millis, “Effect of a nonzero temperature on quantum critical points in itinerant fermion sys-tems,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 48, pp. 7183–7196, Sep 1993. [195] Q. Si, S. Rabello, K. Ingersent, and J. L. Smith, “Locally critical quantum phase transitions in strongly correlated metals,” Nature , vol. 413, pp. 804–808, 2001. [196] J.-X. Zhu, D. R. Grempel, and Q. Si, “Continu-ous Quantum Phase Transition in a Kondo Lattice Model,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 91, p. 156404, Oct 2003. [197] D. R. Grempel and Q. Si, “Locally Critical Point in an Anisotropic Kondo Lattice,” Phys. Rev. Lett. ,vol. 91, p. 026401, Jul 2003. [198] T. Senthil, M. Vojta, and S. Sachdev, “Weak mag-netism and non-Fermi liquids near heavy-fermion critical points,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 69, p. 035111, Jan 2004. [199] A. Schröder, G. Aeppli, R. Coldea, M. Adams, O. Stockert, E. Löhneysen, H. v. Bucher, R. Ra-mazashvili, and P. Coleman, “Onset of antifer-romagnetism in heavy-fermion metals,” Nature ,vol. 407, pp. 351–355, September 2000. 194 

[200] P. Limelette, V. Ta Phuoc, F. Gervais, and R. Frésard, “ ω/t scaling of the optical conductivity in strongly correlated layered cobalt oxide,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 87, p. 035102, Jan 2013. [201] D. v. d. Marel, H. J. A. Molegraaf, J. Zaanen, Z. Nussinov, F. Carbone, A. Damascelli, H. Eisaki, M. Greven, P. H. Kes, and M. Li, “Quantum crit-ical behaviour in a high-Tc superconductor,” Na-ture , vol. 425, pp. 0028–0836, September 2003. [202] D. M. Broun private communication (2016). [203] P. Tran, S. Donovan, and G. Grüner, “Charge ex-citation spectrum in UPt 3,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 65, p. 205102, Apr 2002. [204] G. Bossé, L. Pan, Y. S. Li, L. H. Greene, J. Eck-stein, and N. P. Armitage, “Anomalous frequency and temperature-dependent scattering and Hund’s coupling in the almost quantum critical heavy-fermion system CeFe 2Ge 2,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 93, p. 085104, Feb 2016. [205] S. Lerer, Nernst effect in low dimensionality super-condctors . PhD thesis, Tel Aviv University, 2013. [206] H. Shishido, T. Shibauchi, K. Yasu, H. Kontani, T. Terashima, and Y. Matsuda, “Tuning the Di-mensionality of the Heavy Fermion Compound CeIn 3,” Science , vol. 327, p. 980, 2010. [207] Y. Mizukami, H. Shishido, T. Shibauchi, M. Shi-mozawa, S. Yasumoto, D. Watanabe, M. Ya-mashita, H. Ikeda, T. Terashima, H. Kontani, and Y. Matsuda, “Extremely strong-coupling super-conductivity in artificial two-dimensional Kondo lattices,” Nat. Phys. , vol. 7, p. 849, 2011. [208] M. Shimozawa, T. Watashige, S. Yasumoto, Y. Mizukami, M. Nakamura, H. Shishido, S. K. Goh, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, “Strong suppression of superconductivity by diva-lent ytterbium Kondo holes in CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. B , vol. 86, p. 144526, Oct 2012. [209] S. K. Goh, Y. Mizukami, H. Shishido, D. Watan-abe, S. Yasumoto, M. Shimozawa, M. Yamashita, T. Terashima, Y. Yanase, T. Shibauchi, A. I. Buzdin, and Y. Matsuda, “Anomalous Upper Crit-ical Field in CeCoIn 5/YbCoIn 5 Superlattices with a Rashba-Type Heavy Fermion Interface,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 109, p. 157006, Oct 2012. [210] M. Shimozawa, S. K. Goh, R. Endo, R. Kobayashi, T. Watashige, Y. Mizukami, H. Ikeda, H. Shishido, Y. Yanase, T. Terashima, T. Shibauchi, and Y. Matsuda, “Controllable Rashba Spin-Orbit Interaction in Artificially Engineered Superlat-tices Involving the Heavy-Fermion Superconductor CeCoIn 5,” Phys. Rev. Lett. , vol. 112, p. 156404, Apr 2014. [211] T. Weig, “Electrodynamics of correlated cerium materials,” Master’s thesis, Universität Stuttgart, 2011. [212] G. V. Kozlov and A. Volkov, Millimeter and Sub-millimeter Wave Spectroscopy of Solids (Topics in Applied Physics) , vol. 74. Springer, Berlin, 1998. [213] M. Scheffler, J. P. Ostertag, and M. Dressel, “Fabry-Perot resonances in birefringent YAlO 3 an-alyzed at terahertz frequencies,” Opt. Lett. , vol. 34, no. 22, pp. 3520–3522, 2009. 196 

Publications and manuscripts related to this work 

1. 114 U. S. Pracht et al. Uncovering a Hidden Fermi 114 See Chapter 4 

Liquid in a Quantum-Critical Heavy-Fermion Metal ,in preparation (2017) 2. 115 U. S. Pracht et al. Goldstone modes in granular 115 See Chapter 3 

aluminum , in preparation (2017) 3. 116 U. S. Pracht et al. Shaping a superconducting 116 See Chapter 3 

dome: Enhanced Cooper pairing and suppressed phase coherence in coupled Al nano grains , Physi-cal Review B 93 , 100503 (2016) 4. 117 U. S. Pracht et al. Charge carrier dynamics of 117 See Chapter 4 

the Heavy-Fermion Metal CeCoIn 5 probed by THz spectroscopy , Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials 400 , 31-35 (2016) 5. 118 D. Sherman, U. S. Pracht, B. Gorshunov, S. Po-118 See Chapter 2 

ran, J. Jesudasan, M. Chand, P. Raychaudhuri, M. Swanson, N. Trivedi, A. Auerbach, M. Scheffler, A. Frydman, and M. Dressel The Higgs mode in dis-ordered superconductors close to a quantum phase transition , Nature Physics 11 , 188-192 (2015) 6. 119 N. Bachar, U. S. Pracht, E. Farber, M. Dressel 119 See Chapter 3 

and M. Scheffler Signatures of unconventional Su-perconductivity in granular Aluminum , Journal of Low Temperature Physics 179 , 83 (2014) 7. U. S. Pracht et al. Electrodynamics of the Super-conducting State in Ultra-Thin Films at THz fre-quencies , IEEE Transactions on THz Science and Technology 3, 1-12 (2013)