Title: 2605.05571v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.05571v1

Published Time: Fri, 08 May 2026 00:23:47 GMT

Number of Pages: 44

Markdown Content:
1

# Tunable Interlayer Charge -transfer States in MoSe 2/WS 2 Moiré 

# Superlattices 

Zheyu Lu 1,2,3,†,* , Jiahui Nie 1,2,3,4,† , Tianle Wang 1,† , Rwik Dutta 5,† , Ruishi Qi 1,3 , Jingxu Xie 1,2,3,4 ,

Can Uzundal 1,3,6 , Jianghan Xiao 1,2,3 , Ziyu Wang 1, Yibo Feng 1, Kenji Watanabe 7, Takashi 

Taniguchi 8, James R. Chelikowsky 5,9,10 , Archana Raja 4,11 , Steven G. Louie 1,3 , Mit H. Naik 5,

Michael P. Zaletel 1, Feng Wang 1,3,11, *

> 1

Department of Physics, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 

> 2

Graduate Group in Applied Science and Technology, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, 

California 94720, USA. 

> 3

Material Science Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 

> 4

Molecular Foundry, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 

> 5

Department of Physics, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA. 

> 6

Department of Chemistry, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 

> 7

Research Center for Electronic and Optical Materials, National Institute for Materials Science, 1 -1 Namiki, 

Tsukuba 305 -0044, Japan. 

> 8

Research Center for Materials Nanoarchitectonics, National Institute for Materials Science, 1 -1 Namiki, 

Tsukuba 305 -0044, Japan. 

> 9

Center for Computational Materials, Oden Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, The 

University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, USA. 

> 10

McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712, 

USA. 

> 11

Kavli Energy NanoScience Institute at University of California Berkeley and Lawrence Berkeley National 

Laboratory, Berkeley, California 94720, USA. 

> †

These authors contributed equally. 

> *

Correspondence to: zheyulu@berkeley.edu , fengwang76@berkeley.edu 2

# Abstract 

Moiré superlattices formed by transition metal dichalcogenide (TMD) heterobilayers 

provide a versatile platform for studying strongly correlated electronic, excitonic, and topological 

phenomena in solids. In particular, angle -aligned MoSe 2/WS 2 heterobilayers , which have a Type -

I band alignment at zero vertical electric field, host rich correlated spin and charge physics. Here, 

combining large -scale first -principles calculations and optical reflection spectroscopy, we report a 

thorough study of the emergent mo iré excitonic states and interlayer charge -transfer states in 

angle -aligned electron -doped MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. The moiré excitonic states serve as 

sensitive optical probes to the localization profile of doped electrons. We observe a series of 

in terlayer charge -transfer transitions from n/n 0 = 1 to 4 (where n 0 denotes the moiré density) when 

the vertical electric field switches the heterostructure band alignment from Type -I to Type -II. By 

tuning the vertical electric field, we can precisely control the interlayer electron localization, 

realizing a Fermi -Hubbard model with a tunable charge -transfer band on an effective honeycomb 

lattice. Furthermore, Monte Carlo simulation of the doping dependence of the electric -field 

susceptibility predicts that m ultiple correlated charge -ordered states appear at both integer and 

fractional fillings. Our results provide a holistic understanding of the emergent optical excitations 

and the correlated charge -transfer states in electron -doped MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. 3

# Main 

The moiré superlattice, formed by stacking two -dimensional (2D) materials with a relative 

twist angle or lattice mismatch, offers a unique and powerful platform for studying strongly 

correlated electronic, excitonic, and topological physics in a highly tun able setting 1-44 . Specifically, 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, with a Type -I band alignment without a vertical electric field, 

host fascinating correlated charge and spin physics 26 -33 . Experimental study of charge physics, 

based on measuring the gate capac itance extracted from an additional optical sensing layer, has 

revealed a series of incompressible Wigner -Mott states 29 . Investigation of spin physics, based on 

measuring the spin susceptibility of the n/n 0 = 1 electron, has discovered signatures of kinetic 

magnetism near the electron -doped Mott insulator state 30 . However, the nature of multiple 

emergent optical transitions in the MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices in the electron -doped regime, 

as well as their strong electric field dependence, remained unclear. Here, we perform a thorough 

investigation of the doping - and electric field -dependence of the emergent moiré excitonic states 

in both 60° - (H -type) and 0° -aligned (R -type) MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices in the electron -

doped regime. Using the emergent moiré excitonic states as optical probes, we demonstrate several 

robust electrically tunable electron -localization switching behaviors in the system at different 

filling factors. In electron -doped H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, charge transfer occurs 

be tween the B Se/S stacking in the MoSe 2 layer (M site) and the AB stacking in the WS 2 layer (W 

site), which forms a honeycomb lattice. This behavior is analogous to the interlayer charge transfer 

in hole -doped WSe 2/MoTe 2 heterostructures, which have been shown to host the unusual quantum 

anomalous Hall and Kondo physics 7,13 . Combin ed with Monte Carlo simulations, we further study 

the M-W site polarization susceptibility to the electric field in the MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

heterostructure and reveal a series of novel charge -ordered states. 4

Figure 1a shows a schematic cross -section and an illustration of the electrical circuit of our 

device D1. The MoSe 2 and WS 2 monolayers are stacked to be aligned at nearly 60 ° (H -type) and 

encapsulated by hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) on both top and bottom. Few -layer graphite flakes 

form the top electrostatic gate as well as the electrical contact, while 60 nm gold is used as the 

bottom electrostatic gate 33 . The dual -gate configuration enables independent control of the electron 

doping and the vertical elec tric field in the MoSe 2/WS 2 heterobilayer 33 . To achieve higher doping 

efficiency, we also apply an additional bottom -contact gate to heavily dope the device ’s electrical 

contacts, thereby reducing contact resistance at the moiré region. 

The 4.4% lattice mismatch between MoSe 2 and WS 2 gives rise to a moiré superlattice with 

a period of 𝑎 ! ~ 8 nm at a twist angle of 0° or 60°. Figure 1c shows the flat bands at the conduction 

band edge calculated using first -principles DFT calculations, with the gap corrected by GW 

calculations (see Supplementary Information). Figure 1b shows the modulation of the band state 

charge density arising from the lowest energy conduction band states derived from the K valley in 

MoSe 2 (c 1) and WS 2 (c 7) in the 60° MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré heterostructure. The emergence of flat 

electronic bands and modulation of the wavefunctio ns in real space leads to a modification of the 

optical absorption spectrum 32 -34,43 . Figure 1d shows the reflection contrast (RC) spectrum of device 

D1 at charge neutrality with zero vertical electric field in the energy range around the MoSe 2 A

excitons. The multiple absorption peaks are signatures of the large -area moiré superlattice 33 . We 

study the excitonic spectrum of the reconstructed moiré superlattice theoretically using GW -Bethe 

Salpeter equation calculations 45,46 , which are made feasible in such a large superlattice using the 

pristine unit -cell matrix projection (PUMP) approach 33,34,43 . From our GW -BSE calculations using 

the PUMP method, the brightest peak (M 1 peak) is calculated to be strongly modulated in the moiré 

superlattice with the photoexcited hole and electron having the largest amplitude at the B Se/S 5

stacking (which we are defining as the “M” site) 33 , as shown in Figure 1e (see Supplementary 

Information for more details). Figure 1f and 1g display the RC spectra as a function of the electron 

doping ( y-axis) at a vertical electric field at -0.07 V/nm and 0.07 V/nm, respectively. The electron 

doping is varied from n/n 0 = 0 to 4, where n 0 denotes the moiré density. Figure 1h (1i) shows the 

magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) spectra corresponding to Figure 1f (1g). Several new optical 

resonances are observed when the moiré heterostructure is electron -doped, and they exhibit 

nontrivial dependences on the electron density and the vertical electr ic field. 

At low doping, a lower -energy peak first emerges (red arrow in Figure 1f). In 60° -aligned 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, the first doped electron and the brightest intralayer moiré exciton 

of MoSe 2 (M 1 peak) are both localized at the M site (Figures 1 b, e ). As a result, a bound state 

composed of a doped electron and an exciton colocalized at the M site emerges at finite electron 

doping (Figure 1j). Therefore, we attribute this low -energy peak to the low -energy moiré trion 

(LET) state 33 . The significant posi tive MCD signal of the low -energy peak in Figures 1h and 1i, 

which is typical of a trion state, further validates this assignment. It is worth noting that there is 

another emergent excitation that is brighter than LET and has higher energy than the M 1 peak 

(Figures 1f and 1g). It exhibits the same evolutionary behavior as LET but lacks an intrinsic MCD 

signal (Figures 1h and 1i). We hypothesize that this high -energy peak arises from a higher -energy 

exciton state brightened by the presence of the doped elect ron. We refer to it as the high -energy 

moiré trion (HET) state (See Supplementary Information for more details). Interestingly, both LET 

and HET states show very different behaviors at -0.07 V/nm (Figure 1 f) and 0.07 V/nm (Figure 

1g). 

Using the moiré trion (LET) as an optical probe, we systematically examine electron 

localization for doping ranging from n/n 0 = 0 to 3 at different electric fields. Figure 2a shows the 6

two -dimensional map of the LET intensity, where the x-axis represents doping and the y-axis 

represents the vertical electric field ( see Methods for a detailed convention about the direction of 

the vertical electric field). The LET resonance does not depend on the vertical electric field at n/n 0

< 1. However, its intensity switches at a threshold electric field for 1 < n/n 0 < 3. To better illustrate 

this behavior, we show in Figure 2b two representative line cuts above and below the threshold 

from Figure 2a. In both cases, the intensity of the trion increases linearly from n/n 0 = 0 to 1 because 

the first electron occupies the MoSe 2 M site in the moiré supercell. As doping increases, more M 

sites are occupied by a single electron, resulting in a linear increase in trion intensity. 

However, the evolution of behavior changes when we dope more than one electron per 

moiré supercell. When we apply an electric field below the threshold ( E = -0.07 V/nm), the trion 

intensity linearly decreases as the second electron also occupies the M site. The two electrons form 

a spin -singlet state, which prevents the formation of a moiré trion at the same position due to Pauli 

blocking . On the other hand, when we apply an electric field above the threshold ( E = 0.07 V/nm), 

the trion intensity does not ch ange much between n/n 0 = 1 and 2. This observation indicates that 

the second electron does not stay at the MoSe 2 M site. Instead, the second electron occupies the 

AB site in WS 2 (W site). This charge -transfer process is a direct result of the competition between 

the conduction band offset of MoSe 2 and WS 2 (denoted by Δ), which depend s on the vertical 

electric field E as Δ = Δ" − 𝑒𝑑𝐸 , and the onsite Coulomb repulsion of the M site in MoSe 2

(denoted by U). Here Δ" is the zero electric field conduction band offset, e is the electric charge, 

and d is the interlayer distance. The switching happens at a critical electric field 𝐸 # = (Δ" −

𝑈 )/(𝑒𝑑 ). In this device, 𝐸 # = -0.003 V/nm. For charge densit ies between n/n 0 = 2 and 3, the trion 

intensity decreases linearly at E = 0.07 V/nm. In this case, the third electron begins to fill the c 17

band and occupies the M site again after each W site in the moiré supercell has been filled by one 

electron. 

At E = -0.07 V/nm, a higher -energy peak emerges accompanying the disappearance of the 

LET resonance when n/n 0 > 1 (blue arrow in Figure 1f). Figure 2c shows the two -dimensional map 

of the intensity of this emergent excitation peak. This peak exists whenever two electrons occupy 

the M site, implying that this is the exciton state when the c 1 band is fully filled. In this sense, we 

call it the emergent moiré exciton (EX) state. Figure 2d shows two representative line cuts from 

Figure 2c at E = -0.07 V/nm and 0.07 V/nm. At E = -0.07 V/nm, the second doped electron 

occupies the M site and forms a spin -singlet state with the first doped electron between n/n 0 = 1 

and 2. As a result, the trion intensity decreases linearly, whereas the EX intensity increases linearly, 

as shown by the blue curve in Figure 2d. Between n/n 0 = 2 and 3, the M site is filled with two 

electrons, and the third electron occupies the W site to avoid additional onsite Coulomb repulsion. 

As a result, the trion disappears, while EX persists. At E = 0 .07 V/nm, the second electron occupies 

the W site without affecting the trion intensity between n/n 0 = 1 and 2, and EX does not appear, as 

shown by the orange curve in Figure 2d. Between n/n 0 = 2 and 3, the third electron begins to 

occupy the M site, leading to a linear decrease in the trion intensity and a linear increase in the EX 

intensity. Therefore, EX serves as a complementary optical probe to identify electron localization 

in MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, which can be precisely controlled by the ver tical electric field. 

In addition, at n/n 0 < 1, we can polarize the first doped electron to the W site at a high 

electric field. Figure 2g shows the two -dimensional map of the LET intensity in device D2, which 

has a higher breakdown electric field for the top and bottom gates and allows for a larg er electric -

field range in the measurement. Figure 2h shows the two -dimensional map of the M 1 intensity. At 

finite electron doping, when the electric field is larger than ~ 0.2 V/nm, LET disappears, and M 18

reappears, which indicates that the doped electron transfers to the W site, leaving the M site vacant. 

Such switching occurs at another critical electric field 𝐸 # 

> $

= Δ"/(𝑒𝑑 ) and represents the Type -I to 

Type -II transition in MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. 

Using LET and EX as optical probes, we established several electrically tunable electron -

localization switching behaviors in the MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices at different doping regimes 

(See additional switching behaviors in Supplementary Information): (1) n/n 0 < 1: The electron 

localization can be switched between the B Se/S stacking (Figure 1b) in the MoSe 2 layer (M site) 

and the AB stacking (Figure 1b) in the WS 2 layer (W site) by applying a large positive electric 

field to compensate Δ". A honeycomb lattice is formed when we tune the electric field to make the 

two sites energetically degenerate. (2) 1 < n/n 0 < 3: The first electron occupies the M site and forms 

a triangular lattice, while the second electron can be switched between the M and W sites by 

applying a moderate vertical electric field. In this case, a honeycomb lattice for the second electron 

can a lso be formed. 

A similar charge -transfer behavior is also observed in 0° -aligned (R -type) MoSe 2/WS 2

moiré superlattices, as shown in Figure 3. However, the critical electric field for the charge -transfer 

transition is different. Figure 3a and 3b show the lowest flat bands at the conduction band edge 

and the associated charge density distribution in the R -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices 

obtained from our first -principles calculations. The lowest conduction band derived from the K 

valley in the MoSe 2 layer is the c 1 band with electrons localized at the AA stacking site. The lowest 

conduction band derived from the K valley in the WS 2 layer is the c 10 band with electrons localized 

at the B Se/W stacking site. 

Figure 3c shows the doping -field RC spectrum of the MoSe 2 layer in device D3 with an R -

type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattice. The density dependence of the MoSe 2 RC spectra exhibits 9

strong changes as the electric field increases from 0.22 V/nm to 0.4 V/nm. At all vertical electric 

fields, the MoSe 2 LET signal (denoted by the blue arrow) increases from charge neutral as the 

electron doping increases and reaches a maximum at n/n 0 = 1. This indicates that the first doped 

electron is localized at the AA site of the MoSe 2 layer, suggesting a Type -I band alignment in the 

applied electric field range. At a low field of 0.22 V/nm, the MoSe 2 LET signal starts to decrease 

when n/n 0 > 1 and disap pears at n/n 0 = 2. It suggests that the second doped electron is also localized 

at the same site in the MoSe 2 layer. The two electrons form a singlet pair and suppress the MoSe 2

LET signal. When the electric field is increased to 0.263 V/ nm, the LET signal remains constant 

between 1 < n/n 0 < 2 and starts to decrease after n/n 0 > 2. It suggests that the second electron is 

now transferred to the WS 2 layer, sitting at the B Se/W site, while the third electron is doped in the 

MoSe 2 layer, occupying the AA site again. At a higher electric field of 0.360 V/nm, the LET signal 

remains constant between 1 < n/n 0 < 3 and starts to decrease after n/n 0 > 3. It indicates that both 

the second and the third electrons are transferred to the WS 2 layer and the fourth electron occupies 

the MoSe 2 layer again. At even higher electric field of 0.40 V/nm, the second, third , and fourth 

electrons are all in the WS 2 layer, and only the fifth electron occupies the MoSe 2 layer again, as 

shown by the constant LET signal between 1 < n/n 0 < 4. These unusual charge -transfer behaviors 

are also manifested in the corresponding changes of the MoSe 2 EX signals (denoted by the green 

arrow). 

Figure 3d shows the peak intensity of MoSe 2 LET (top) and EX (bottom) states across the 

full doping and electric field range. We can clearly see the charge -transfer transitions of n = 2,3,4, 

which take place at a threshold electric field of around 0.272 V/nm, 0.298 V/nm, and 0.370 V/nm, 

respectively. 10 

Next, we quantitatively analyze the electric field induced charge -transfer transition in 

device D1, as reflected in the changes in the LET and EX intensities over the doping range 1 ≤ 

n/n 0 ≤ 3 from Figure 2. At each doping, the intensity evolution of both excitations is well described 

by a polarization function (See Supplementary Information for more details): 

𝐼 = 𝑓 ⋅ tanh (𝛼 ⋅ (𝐸 − 𝐸 #)) + 𝑐 

where c and f set the intensity offset and contrast, 𝛼 describes its field susceptibility, and 𝐸 # is the 

critical electric field at its midpoint. Figure 4a presents the doping dependence of the four fitting 

parameters for both LET (blue curves) and EX (orange curves). The transition behavior s extracted 

from these two optical probes are in good agreement .

To understand the doping dependence of the fitting parameters, we first consider a minimal 

two -site model with M and W sites in each moiré supercell. In the absence of interactions, the 

moiré trion intensity at 1 < n/n 0 < 2 is given by 

𝐼 ∝ (1 − 𝛿 /2) + 𝛿 /2 ⋅ tanh (𝛽 (𝑒 ℎ𝐸 − Δ)/2)

where 𝛿 = n/n" − 1 is the doping measured from n/n 0 = 1, 𝛽 = 1/(𝑘 %𝑇 ) is the thermodynamic 

beta, ℎ is the effective M -W vertical separation that determines their energy difference at electric 

field E, and Δ is the free energy difference for adding one more electron on M relative to W (See 

Supplementary Information for details). A similar relation applies to 2 < n/n 0 < 3: 

𝐼 ∝ (1 − 𝛿 /2) + (1 − 𝛿 /2) ⋅ tanh (𝛽 (𝑒 ℎ𝐸 − Δ)/2).

This simple model naturally explains the linear dependence of f and c on doping. The intensity 

contrast f measures the number of carriers that can be polarized between the two sites. It therefore 

increases linearly for 1 < n/n 0 < 2, reaches a maximum at n/n 0 = 2, and then decreases linearly for 

2 < n/n 0 < 3 as more moiré supercells enter the less -polarizable three -electron configuration. 

Meanwhile, the intensity offset c corresponds to the half -height intensity at E = E c, where the M 11 

and W sites are degenerate, and the added electron occupies them with equal probability. The 

linear doping dependence of 𝑐 reflects the growing fraction of moiré supercells with two electrons 

on the M site, which decreases (increases) the LET (EX) intensity. 

However, the non -interacting two -site model predicts a doping -independent susceptibility, 

inconsistent with the experimental trend. This discrepancy indicates that Coulomb interactions 

induce correlated polarization across the moiré lattice. To capture thi s effect, we include long -

range Coulomb interactions in our model and use Monte Carlo simulations to compute the doping -

dependent electron configurations and the corresponding M -W polarization susceptibility 𝛼 . The 

interacting model is: 

𝐻 (𝑛 ) = 1

2 A 𝑉 &' 𝑛 &𝑛 ' − 𝑔 𝐸 ( A 𝑧 &𝑛 &

> &&'

According to the DFT calculation of the electron -localization profile (Figure 1b), we place the M 

and W sites on the two sublattices of an effective honeycomb lattice, with 𝑧 & = +1 ( -1) for M (W) 

sites. 𝑉 &' is the screened Coulomb potential between site i and j. Each site has occupation 𝑛 & ∈

{0, 1}, defined relative to the n/n 0 = 1 background charge with one electron on each M site, so that 

the model is particle -hole symmetric about n/n 0 = 2 (below, we focus on 1 < n/n 0 < 2). Because 

this subtraction introduces an entropic contribution that shifts the free energy of each site, we 

include the corresponding term explicitly in the Monte Carlo sampling weights to recover the 

correct physical energetics. For simplicity, we ne glect coherent electron hopping and treat the 

model as classical; this approxi mation is justified because the kinetic energy is much smaller than 

the Coulomb scale and does not qualitatively change the charge configurations relevant to the 

polarization response. We also neglect the layer dependence of the Coulomb interaction between 

M-M, M -W, and W -W sites, which results in a doping -independent Ec in our simulations. In 12 

contrast, the doping dependence and particle -hole asymmetry of Ec in the experiment can be 

attributed to differences in the site/layer dielectric environment between the M and W sites. 

We extract 𝛼 from our simulation over a wide range of temperatures (Figure 4b). At 

moderately low temperatures, the simulation 𝛼 (𝑛 ) captures the nonmonotonic trend observed in 

our experiment. Near n/n 0 = 1, 𝛼 approaches the noninteracting two -level susceptibility 𝛼 ) =

𝛽𝑒 ℎ/2, but it decreases gradually as n/n 0 increases, indicating suppression of collective 

polarization from repulsive interactions. After reaching a minimum near n/n 0 = 3/2, 𝛼 rises sharply 

and diverges as n/n 0 → 2 , signaling the emergence of a polarized charge -ordered state at n/n 0 = 2 

stabilized by Coulomb interaction. The resulting state is analogous to the correlated insulating 

phases discussed previously in triangular -lattice moiré systems at fractional fillings 3. We also 

examine the temperature evolution of 𝛼 : At lower temperatures, additional sharp non -monotonic 

features appear in 𝛼 (𝑛 ), suggestive of a “devil’s staircase” of competing commensurate charge 

orders. At higher temperatures, the strong enhancement of 𝛼 at n/n 0 = 2 is rounded, consistent with 

thermal melting of the charge -ordered state. Moreover, for all dopings away from n/n 0 = 1, 𝛼 (𝑇 )

is generally nonmonotonic and deviates from the noninteracting expectation. This behavior 

confirms the essential role of interaction s in explaining the measured susceptibility. 

We further analyze the zero -field electron configurations sampled in the simulations to 

identify the associated charge orders. As temperatures are lowered, we observe an increasing 

number of commensurate charge patterns, whose Monte Carlo trajectories exhi bit markedly longer 

autocorrelation times (Figure 4c), indicating slow dynamics and incipient charge ordering. The 

n/n 0 = 2 charge order appears first and corresponds to half -filling of the effective honeycomb 

lattice. In this state, electrons are fully po larized onto a single sublattice, which explains its 

exceptionally strong response to the applied polarizing field. The next robust charge order occurs 13 

at n/n 0 = 4/3, the 1/6 filling of the effective honeycomb lattice, and exhibits a similarly charge -

polarized state with a tripled supercell. The enhancement of susceptibility remains unresolved in 

our experiment, possibly because the ordering temperature is lower . Finally, near n/n 0 = 3/2, we 

identify a prominent local charge pattern. This pattern is stripe -like, with electrons alternating 

between M and W sites, thereby breaking the underlying C 3 rotational symmetry. We do not 

observe unambiguous long -range stripe order within the accessible temperature window. Still, it 

can nonetheless account for the suppression of 𝛼 near n/n 0 = 3/2: alternating M/W occupation 

penalizes field -driven relocation of individual electrons and reduces the collective polarization 

response. 

In summary, we have reported optical measurements of emergent moiré excitations in the 

doping and electric field two -dimensional phase space for both electron -doped H -type and R -type 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the nature 

of these excitations, which previously remained unclear. The moiré trion and the emergent moiré 

exciton serve as optical probes to identify electron localization and inte rlayer charge transfer, 

which can be precisely controlled by a v ertical electric field. These novel electron -localization 

switching behaviors , along with tunable lattice geometries between triangular and honeycomb 

configurations, enable the realization of a Fermi -Hubbard model with an electric field -tunable 

charge -transfer band in MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. Furthermore, MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices have the potential to host ferroelectric and Wigner -molecule states. Our work paves 

the way for future experiments that utilize moiré excitations as optical probes to ex plore electron 

localization in TMD moiré superlattices. 14 

# Methods 

Device fabrication 

We use a dry -transfer method based on polyethylene terephthalate glycol (PETG) stamps to 

fabricate the heterostructures. Monolayer MoSe 2, monolayer WS 2, few -layer graphene, and hBN 

flakes are mechanically exfoliated from bulk crystals onto Si substrates with a 90 -nm -thick SiO 2

layer. We use 20 -30 nm hBN as the gate dielectric. A 0.5 mm -thick clear PETG stamp is 

employed to pick up the flakes at 65 -75°C sequentially. The whole stack is then released onto a 

285 nm SiO 2/Si substrate with a pre -patterned 60 nm Au bottom gate (D1 and D2) and a 10 nm 

Pt bottom gate plus a contact gate (D3) at 95 -100°C, followed by dissolving the PETG in 

chloroform at room temperature for at least one day. Electrodes (Cr/Au for D1 and D2; Bi /Sb/Au 

for D3) are defined using photolithography (Durham Magneto Optics, MicroWriter) or electron -

beam lithography (Crestec) and evaporated using electron -beam evaporation (Angstrom 

Engineering). 

Doping - and electric field -dependent RC spectroscopy 

The optical measurements are performed in an optical cryostat (Quantum Design, OptiCool) with 

a temperature down to 2 K (nominal). We use a supercontinuum laser (Fianium Femtopower 

1060 Supercontinuum Laser) as the light source for the reflection spectrosc opy. The laser is 

focused on the sample using a 20× Mitutoyo objective with a beam diameter of ~ 1.5 μm. A 

small beam size provides a local probe that we can park in a clean region free of bubbles. We use 

a very low incident laser power (approximately 10 n W) to minimize photodoping effects. The 

spectra are independent of the incident light power up to 200 nW. The reflected light is collected 

by a spectrometer (Princeton Instruments PIXIS 256e) with a 1000 ms exposure time. To 

minimize the influence of laser fluctuations, a second laser beam, directly reflected from a silver 

mirror, is collected simultaneously to normalize the sample reflection spectra. 

Doping - and electric field -dependent measurements are conducted by applying voltages 

to the graphite and gold gates using Keithley 2400 SourceMeters. The charge density n and the 

vertical electric field E are defined using a parallel plate capacitor model: 

𝑛 = 1

𝑒 

𝜖 *%+ 𝜖 "

𝑑 (𝑉 ) + 𝑉 % − 𝑉 ")

𝐸 = 1

2𝑑 (𝑉 ) − 𝑉 %)

where 𝜖 *%+ is the dielectric constant of hBN, 𝜖 " is the permittivity of free space, 𝑑 is the 

thickness of the top and bottom hBN layer (we choose two hBNs with the same thickness to 

make the device symmetric to both gates), and 𝑉 ) (𝑉 %) is the voltage applied to the top (bottom) 

gate. We account for the quantum capacitance (the voltage range over which charge is not 

injected) by applying an offset voltage 𝑉 " for electron doping. The offsets are defined by the sum 

voltage at which the reflection contrast spectrum begins to change with electron doping. The 

vertical electric field uses a sign convention in which a positive vertical electric field points from 

the top gate to the bottom gate. 

The moiré density 𝑛 " is defined to correspond to one electron per moiré supercell and is 

determined through the relation 𝑛 " = 1/[𝐿 ! 

> ,

sin (𝜋 /3)] where 𝐿 ! is the moiré superlattice 

constant. The twist angle ( 𝜃 ) and lattice mismatch ( 𝛿 = (𝑎 ′ − 𝑎 )/𝑎 ) between the two layers 

determine 𝐿 ! via 𝐿 ! = 𝑎 /√𝛿 , + 𝜃 ,.15 

Magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) measurements 

The MCD data, defined as (𝑅 - − 𝑅 .)/(𝑅 - + 𝑅 .), were taken at B = 0.5 T. Here 𝑅 -/. denotes the 

reflectivity of two circular polariz ations .

Numerical simulation 

We perform classical Monte -Carlo simulations of our two -site model on the effective 

honeycomb lattice. The simulation is performed on up to 30 × 30 unit cells, and numerical 

convergence with respect to system size is confirmed. For 𝑉 &' we use the double -gate -screened 

Coulomb interaction with 𝑑 /2 the gate -to -sample distance: 𝑉 V𝑟 &' X = 0!

> 123"3#

∑ (.5)$ 

> 78!-(9: )!
> -;
> 9<.;

.

The interaction decays as 𝑟 .= over 𝑟 , and we truncate terms smaller than 5% of the nearest -

neighbor interaction 𝑉 5. Based on our experiment, we choose the moiré unit length 𝑎 ! = 8 nm, 

gate distance d = 60 nm, and dielectric constant 𝜖 > = 8, which gives 𝑉 5 = 34 meV = 𝑘 % ⋅ 400 K. 

First -principles calculations 

We investigate the structural reconstruction, electronic structure, and optical absorption of 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices at twist angles of 0° and 60° using first -principles calculations. 

The atomic structures of these superlattices are first relaxed using classical interatomic force -field 

methods 47,48,49 . To analyze intralayer moiré excitonic absorption associated with the MoSe 2 layer 

of the superlattice, we compute the electronic structure of the reconstructed MoSe 2 layer within 

density functional theo ry (DFT). Excitonic properties and optical absorption spectra are then 

obtained using many -body perturbation theory within the GW approximation combined with the 

Bethe –Salpeter equation (GW -BSE). The BSE Hamiltonian is constructed using 24 valence and 

24 c onduction bands, sampled on a 3 × 3 × 1 k-point grid of the moiré Brillouin zone. The moiré 

BSE kernel is evaluated using the pristine unit -cell matrix projection (PUMP) approach, where the 

moiré kernel matrix elements are expressed as a coherent linear co mbination of pristine unit -cell 

kernel matrix elements (See Supplementary Information for more details). 

# Data availability 

The main data that support the findings of this study are available within the article and its 

Supplementary Information files. More supporting data are available from the corresponding 

authors upon request. 16 

# References 

1. Emma C. Regan et al. Mott and generalized Wigner crystal states in WSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. Nature 579 , 359 –363 (2020). 

2. Yanhao Tang et al. Simulation of Hubbard model physics in WSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. Nature 579 , 353 -358 (2020). 

3. Yang Xu et al. Correlated insulating states at fractional fillings of moiré superlattices. 

Nature 587 , 214 -218 (2020). 

4. Augusto Ghiotto et al. Quantum criticality in twisted transition metal dichalcogenides. 

Nature 597 , 345 -349 (2021). 

5. Tingxin Li et al. Continuous Mott transition in semiconductor moiré superlattices. Nature 

597 , 350 -354 (2021). 

6. Hongyuan Li et al. Imaging two -dimensional generalized Wigner crystals. Nature 597 ,

650 -654 (2021). 

7. Tingxin Li et al. Quantum anomalous Hall effect from intertwined moiré bands. Nature 

600 , 641 -646 (2021). 

8. Liguo Ma et al. Strongly correlated excitonic insulator in atomic double layers. Nature 

598 , 585 -589 (2021). 

9. Dongxue Chen et al. Excitonic insulator in a heterojunction moiré superlattice. Nature 

Physics 18 , 1171 -1176 (2022). 

10. Zuocheng Zhang et al. Correlated interlayer exciton insulator in heterostructures of 

monolayer WSe 2 and moiré WS 2/WSe 2. Nature Physics 18 , 1214 -1220 (2022). 

11. Dante M. Kennes et al. Moiré heterostructures as a condensed -matter quantum simulator. 

Nature Physics 17 , 155 -163 (2021). 

12. Zheyu Lu et al. Lithium intercalation in MoS 2 bilayers and implications for moiré flat 

bands. Physical Review B 102 , 125424 (2020). 

13. Wenjin Zhao et al. Gate -tunable heavy fermions in a moiré Kondo lattice. Nature 616 ,

61 -65 (2023). 

14. Eric Anderson et al. Programming correlated magnetic states with gate -controlled moiré 

geometry. Science 381 , 325 -330 (2023). 

15. Jiaqi Cai et al. Signatures of fractional quantum anomalous Hall states in twisted MoTe 2.

Nature 622 , 63 -68 (2023). 

16. Yihang Zeng et al. Thermodynamic evidence of fractional Chern insulator in moiré 

MoTe 2. Nature 622 , 69 -73 (2023). 

17. Heonjoon Park et al. Observation of fractionally quantized anomalous Hall effect. Nature 

622 , 74 -79 (2023). 

18. Hongyuan Li et al. Wigner molecular crystals from multielectron moiré artificial atoms. 

Science 385 , 86 -91 (2024). 

19. Emma C. Regan et al. Spin transport of a doped Mott insulator in moiré heterostructures. 

Nature Communications 15 , 10252 (2024). 

20. Yiyu Xia et al. Superconductivity in twisted bilayer WSe 2. Nature 637 , 833 -838 (2025). 17 

21. Nan Zhang et al. Moiré intralayer excitons in a MoSe 2/MoS 2 heterostructure. Nano 

Letters 18 , 7651 -7657 (2018). 

22. Chenhao Jin et al. Observation of moiré excitons in WSe 2/WS 2 heterostructure 

superlattices. Nature 567 , 76 -80 (2019). 

23. Kha Tran et al. Evidence for moiré excitons in van der Waals heterostructures. Nature 

567 , 71 -75 (2019). 

24. Kyle L. Seyler et al. Signatures of moiré -trapped valley excitons in MoSe 2/WSe 2

heterobilayers. Nature 567 , 66 -70 (2019). 

25. Evgeny M. Alexeev et al. Resonantly hybridized excitons in moiré superlattices in van 

der Waals heterostructures. Nature 567 , 81 -86 (2019). 

26. Long Zhang et al. Twist -angle dependence of moiré excitons in WS 2/MoSe 2

heterobilayers. Nature Communications 11 , 5888 (2020). 

27. Long Zhang et al. Van der Waals heterostructure polaritons with moiré -induced 

nonlinearity. Nature 591 , 61 -65 (2021). 

28. Yanhao Tang et al. Tuning layer -hybridized moiré excitons by the quantum -confined 

Stark effect. Nature Nanotechnology 16 , 52 -57 (2021). 

29. Yanhao Tang et al. Dielectric catastrophe at the Wigner -Mott transition in a moiré 

superlattice. Nature Communications 13 , 4271 (2022). 

30. Livio Ciorciaro et al. Kinetic magnetism in triangular moiré materials. Nature 623 , 509 -

513 (2023). 

31. Borislav Polovnikov et al. Field -induced hybridization of moiré excitons in MoSe 2/WS 2

heterobilayers. Physical Review Letters 132 , 076902 (2024). 

32. Jiaxuan Guo et al. Moiré -controllable exciton localization and dynamics through 

spatially -modulated inter -and intralayer excitons in a MoSe 2/WS 2 heterobilayer. Nature 

Communications 16 , 11257 (2025). 

33. Zheyu Lu et al. Nature of emergent moiré excitations in MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. 

Nano Letters 26 , 4096 –4102 (2026). 

34. Mit H. Naik et al. Intralayer charge -transfer moiré excitons in van der Waals 

superlattices. Nature 609 , 52 -57 (2022). 

35. Eunice Y. Paik et al. Interlayer exciton laser of extended spatial coherence in atomically 

thin heterostructures. Nature 576 , 80 -84 (2019). 

36. Yuya Shimazaki et al. Strongly correlated electrons and hybrid excitons in a moiré 

heterostructure. Nature 580 , 472 -477 (2020). 

37. Emma C. Regan et al. Emerging exciton physics in transition metal dichalcogenide 

heterobilayers. Nature Reviews Materials 7, 778 -795 (2022). 

38. Di Huang et al. Excitons in semiconductor moiré superlattices. Nature Nanotechnology 

17 , 227 -238 (2022). 

39. Kin Fai Mak and Jie Shan. Semiconductor moiré materials. Nature Nanotechnology 17 ,

686 -695 (2022). 18 

40. Ouri Karni et al. Structure of the moiré exciton captured by imaging its electron and hole. 

Nature 603 , 247 -252 (2022). 

41. David Schmitt et al. Formation of moiré interlayer excitons in space and time. Nature 

608 , 499 -503 (2022). 

42. Elyse Barré et al. Optical absorption of interlayer excitons in transition -metal 

dichalcogenide heterostructures. Science 376 , 406 -410 (2022). 

43. Sandhya Susarla et al. Hyperspectral imaging of exciton confinement within a moiré unit 

cell with a subnanometer electron probe. Science 378 , 1235 -1239 (2022). 

44. Heonjoon Park et al. Dipole ladders with large Hubbard interaction in a moiré exciton 

lattice. Nature Physics 19 , 1286 -1292 (2023). 

45. Michael Rohlfing, and Steven G. Louie. Electron -hole excitations and optical spectra 

from first principles. Physical Review B 62 , 4927 (2000). 

46. Mark S. Hybertsen, and Steven G. Louie. Electron correlation in semiconductors and 

insulators: Band gaps and quasiparticle energies. Physical Review B 34 , 5390 (1986). 

47. Saismit Naik et al. Twister: Construction and structural relaxation of commensurate 

moiré superlattices. Computer Physics Communications 271 , 108184 (2022). 

48. Frank H. Stillinger, and Thomas A. Weber. Computer simulation of local order in 

condensed phases of silicon. Physical Review B 31 , 5262 (1985). 

49. Mit H. Naik et al. Kolmogorov -Crespi potential for multilayer transition -metal 

dichalcogenides: capturing structural transformations in moiré superlattices. The Journal 

of Physical Chemistry C 123 , 9770 -9778 (2019). 

Acknowledgements 

This work was supported primarily by the Center for Computational Study of Excited -State 

Phenomena in Energy Materials (C2SEPEM) at LBNL, funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, 

Office of Science, Basic Energy Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering Division, under 

Contract DE -AC02 -05CH11231, as part of the Computational Materials Sciences Program. The 

heterostructure device fabrication is supported by the Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Materials 

Sciences and Engineering Division, of the U.S. Depart ment of Energy under Contract DE -AC02 -

05 -CH11231, within the van der Waals Heterostructures Program (KCWF16). This research used 

the Lawrencium computational cluster resource provided by the IT Division at the Lawrence 

Berkeley National Laboratory (Supported by the Director, Office of Science, Office of Basic 

Energy Sciences, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE -AC02 -05CH11231). 

M.H.N. acknowledges support from the National Science Foundation (NSF) MRSEC DMR -

2308817. R.D. was supported by the Texas Quantum Institute Graduate Fellowship. K.W. and T.T. 

acknowledge support from the JSPS KAKENHI (Grants 21H05233 and 23H02052), CREST 

(JPMJCR24A5), JST, and World Premier International Research Center Initiative, MEXT, Japan. 

We acknowledge the Texas Advanced Computing Center at The University of Texas at Austin for 

providing computational resources that have contributed to the research r esults reported within 

this paper. This work also used computational resources from Stampede3 at The University of 

Texas at Austin through allocation PHY250206 from the Advanced Cyberinfrastructure 19 

Coordination Ecosystem: Services and Support program, which is supported by NSF Grants 

2138259, 2138286, 2138307, 2137603, and 2138296. 

Author contributions Z.L. and F.W. conceived the research. Z.L. and R.Q. carried out optical 

measurements with J.N., J. Xie , C.U., and A. Raja . Z.L., J.N., and F.W. performed data analysis. 

T.W., Z.L., and M.Z. performed Monte Carlo simulations. R.D., J.R.C., S.G.L., and M.H.N. 

performed first -principles DFT and GW -BSE calculations. Z.L., J.N., J. Xie , J. Xiao , Z.W., and 

Y.F. contributed to the fabrication of the van der Waals heterostructures. K.W. and T.T. grew 

hBN crystals. All authors discussed the results and wrote the manuscript. 

Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. 20 

# Figures 

Fig. 1 | Emergent moiré excitations in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. (a) Schematic 

showing the device structure. (b) First -principles calculations of the electron charge density 

modulation in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, taking into account structural 

reconstructions in the bilayer. Left: charge density of the lowest moiré conduction band state 

derived from the K valley of the MoSe 2 layer (marked as c 1 band) is localized at the B Se/S 

stacking; right: charge density of the lowest energy cond uction band derived from the K valley 

of the WS 2 layer (marked as c 7 band). (c) Electronic band structure of the reconstructed H -type 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices calculated using DFT, with the band gap corrected using GW 

calculations. c 1 and c 2 bands are localized in the MoSe 2 layer; c 7 and c 20 bands are the first two 

lowest energy conduction states localized in the WS 2 layer, derived from the K valley. (d) 

Experimental reflection contrast (RC) spectrum of H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices under 

charge neutrality and zero external vertical electric field. The four main moiré exciton states are 

labeled as M 1, M 2, M 3, and M 4. (e) Calculated real -space map of the moiré exciton 

corresponding to the brightest M 1 exciton state in our first -principles GW -BSE calculations. The 

plot shows the electron density of the exciton, |𝜒 (𝐫 𝐞 , 𝐫 𝐡 )|,, for fixed hole positions 𝐫 𝐡 (red dot) in 

the superlattice . (f -g) Experimental RC spectrum of H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices with 

electron doping ranging from n/n 0 = 0 to 4 under a moderate negative (f) and a positive (g) 

electric field, respectively. VG = ( VT + V B) / 2 . The r ed and blue arrows indicate the low -energy 

moiré trion (LET) and emergent moiré exciton (EX) states, respectively. (h -i) Experimental 

magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) spectrum corresponding to (f -g). (j) Schematic showing the 

physical nature of the LET state. 21 

Fig. 2 | Field -tunable interlayer charge transfer in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. 

(a) Peak intensity of the low -energy moiré trion (LET) state in the doping and vertical electric -

field two -dimensional parameter space. (b) Two representative horizontal line cuts in (a) with 

negative (blue) and positive (orange) electric field. (c) Peak intensity of the emergent moiré 

exciton (EX) state in the doping and vertical electric -field two -dimensional parameter space. (d) 

Two representative horizontal line c uts in (c) with negative (blue) and positive (orange) electric 

field. (e) Schematic showing the physical nature of the EX state. (f) Schematic showing the 

charge -transfer process between the M and the W sites in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices 

at n/n 0 = 2. The transparent electron denotes an electric -field -switchable electron. (g) Peak 

intensity of the LET state in the doping and vertical electric -field two -dimensional parameter 

space in device D2. (h) Peak intensity of the M 1 state in the doping and v ertical electric -field 

two -dimensional parameter space in device D2. (i) Schematic showing the charge -transfer 

process between the M and the W sites in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices at n/n 0 = 1. The 

transparent electron denotes an electric -field -switchable electron. 22 

Fig. 3 | Field -tunable interlayer charge transfer in R -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. 

(a) Calculated band structure of 0° aligned MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. c 1 and c 2 bands are 

localized in the MoSe 2 layer; c 10 and c 24 bands are the first two lowest energy conduction states 

localized in the WS 2 layer, derived from the K valley. (b) Calculated electron charge density 

modulation of some of the band states marked in (a). Bottom: first moiré band localized in the 

MoSe 2 layer (c 1 band); Top: lowest energy moiré conduction band derived from the K valley that 

is localized in the WS 2 layer (c 10 band). (c) Doping -field RC spectra of the MoSe 2 layer with the 

doping range covering n/n 0 = 0 to 4 and the field range covering from 0.22 V/nm to 0.4 V/nm. 

The blue and green arrows in each spectrum denote the LET and the EX states, respectively. (d) 

Doping -field maps of the MoSe 2 moiré excitations. Top: peak intensity of LET; Bottom: peak 

intensity of EX. 23 

Fig. 4 | Charge -transfer ordering in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. (a) 

Parameterization of field -dependent intensity of LET (blue) and EX (orange) states from n/n 0 = 1 

to 3, following the fitting function in the main text. From top left to bottom right: f is the 

intensity contrast, c is the intensity offset, 𝛼 is the measured field susceptibility, and Ec is the 

midpoint critical electric field. (b) Simulated doping evolution of 𝛼 from Monte -Carlo sampling 

at multiple temperatures. Temperature is normalized against nearest -neighbor M -W Coulomb 

interaction 𝑉 5, and 𝛼 is normalized against non -interacting expectation 𝛼 ) (see main text). (c) 

Illustration of three observed low -temperature charge orders on the moiré superlattices at n/n 0 =

4/3, 3/2, and 2. The light blue circle represents the n/n 0 = 1 background charge at M sites, and 

solid blue/orange dots represent the electrons localized at the M and the W sites, respectively. 

The moiré supercell is highlighted to match the M and the W sites with the DFT calculation in 

Figure 1b. 24 

# Supplementary Information for 

# Tunable Interlayer Charge -transfer States in MoSe 2/WS 2 Moiré 

# Superlattices 

Zheyu Lu †,* , Jiahui Nie †, Tianle Wang †, Rwik Dutta †, Ruishi Qi , Jingxu Xie , Can Uzundal ,

Jianghan Xiao , Ziyu Wang , Yibo Feng , Kenji Watanabe , Takashi Taniguchi , James R. 

Chelikowsky , Archana Raja , Steven G. Louie , Mit H. Naik , Michael P. Zaletel , Feng Wang *  

> †These authors contributed equally.
> *Correspondence to: zheyulu@berkeley.edu ,fengwang76@berkeley.edu

25 

# Second harmonic generation 

We use second harmonic generation (SHG) to determine the relative alignment of the TMD 

flakes. The measurements were performed using an amplified femtosecond laser system based on 

a commercially available Yb:KGW source (Light Conversion, Carbide), which pu mps an optical 

parametric amplifier (OPA, Light Conversion, Orpheus Twins). The idler output of the OPA, tuned 

to 1060 nm, was focused onto the sample using a 50 × microscope objective. The back -reflected 

SHG signal was collected and imaged onto a cooled camera (Princeton Instruments, PIXIS -100) 

using a short focal length lens ( f = 2.5 cm). The SHG anisotropy was measured by inserting a 

polarizer and a half -wave plate into the beam path and recording the SHG intensity as a function 

of the half -wave plate angle. 

Supplementary Figure 1 | Second harmonic generation (SHG). Polarization -resolved SHG 

data for the three devices described in this study. In the SHG data, the blue (orange) dots 

correspond to the integrated SHG signal at different polarization angles θ for the monolayer 

(moiré) regions, and the solid lines are the corresponding fits to a cos 2(3 θ) function. (a) Device 

D1: 60° -aligned (H -type) MoSe 2/WS 2 heterostructure described in the main text. (b) Device D2: 

60° -aligned (H -type) MoSe 2/WS 2 heterostructure de scribed in the main text. (c) Device D3: 0° -

aligned (R -type) MoSe 2/WS 2 heterostructure described in the main text. 26 

# High -energy moiré trion (HET) state 

We propose that the HET state is a trion -like state stabilized by moiré localization, derived 

from the repulsive polaron state of monolayer MoSe 2. The monolayer repulsive polaron is known 

to be a collective bound state from the exciton dressed by the Fermi sea of free electrons, which is 

gradually blue shifted by the increase in electron density due to Pauli blocking. However, in the 

moiré heterobilayer , the strong moiré reconstruction of the single -particle bands leads to a great 

modification of this collective bound state: the repulsive polaron state can be strongly quantized 

to integer fillings due to the strong interaction with highly localized electrons in each moiré 

supercell. Specifically, at n/n 0 = 1, the c 1 band is half -filled, leading to the Mott -insulating ground 

state. Each electron can bind with an M 1 exciton, forming an attractive polaron state (LET), leaving 

the other orthogonal repulsive p olaron state to the high -energy side. In the simplest single -particle 

picture , the HET could be viewed as a bound state composed of a higher -energy exciton and a 

doped electron at the M site (c 1 band). 

Despite its complicated physical origin, the HET state demonstrates a synchronized 

emergence/annihilation with the LET state and features identical electric field dependence, as 

shown in Supplementary Figure 2. Both peaks are associated with the doped elec tron localized at 

the M site. As a result, these two emergent excitations form a pair of optical probes capable of 

detecting a single, localized doped electron in the MoSe 2 layer. 27 

Supplementary Figure 2 | LET vs HET. (a) Peak intensity of the low -energy moiré trion (LET) 

state in the doping and vertical electric -field two -dimensional parameter space. (b) Peak intensity 

of the high -energy moiré trion (HET) state in the doping and vertical electric -field two -

dimensional parameter space. 28 

# Additional electron -localization switching behaviors in H-type moiré 

# superlattices 

Using the emergent exciton as an optical probe, we extend the study of electron localization 

to the regime of n/n 0 = 3 to 4, where the moiré trion signal is no longer present. The left panel in 

Supplementary Figure 3a shows the two -dimensional intensity plot of the emergent exciton, which 

continues to exhibit switching behavior. Supplementary Figure 3b shows the dopin g-dependent 

RC spectrum under negative (left) and positive (right) electric fields. Notably, a new lower -energy 

peak emerges, exhibiting a wel l-defined magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) signal, as shown in 

Supplementary Figure 3c. The two -dimensional intensity plot of this new peak is displayed in the 

right panel of Supplementary Figure 3a. It reveals a complementary pattern to that of the emerg ent 

exciton (EX) state. We therefore attribute this new feature to the trion state associated with the EX 

state, here referred to as the emergent trion (EXT) state, which becomes active when three 

electrons occupy the M site. 

Supplementary Figure 4a shows the two -dimensional map of the EX intensity in device 

D2, which has a larger electric field range. The blue arrow denotes the electron -localization 

switching we observed in D1 at 3 < n/n 0 < 4 (Supplementary Figure 3a). The red arrow, however, 

denotes a new electron -localization switching at 2 < n/n 0 < 3 under a large negative electric field. 

With a large negative electric field, the third doped electron prefers to stay in the MoSe 2 layer and 

fills the c 2 band, which is also loc alized at the M site. As a result, the EX intensity decreases. It is 

worth noting that although EX intensity decreases under both large positive and negative electric 

fields at 2 < n/n 0 < 3, the underlying electron configuration is totally different for the two switching 

behaviors .

In summary, we have the following additional electron -localization switching behaviors :29 

(1) 2 < n/n 0 < 3: By further increasing the electric field in the negative direction, we can 

put three electrons at the M site, leading to the potential formation of a quantum many -body 

complex, such as the Wigner molecule state. 

(2) 3 < n/n 0 < 4: At n/n 0 = 3 with a moderate electric field, the energetically stable 

configuration is two electrons forming a spin -singlet at the M site, and one electron occupying the 

W site. The additional doped electron can be switched between the W and the M sites by occupyi ng 

the second moiré conduction band (c 2 band), which is also localized at the M site. 

Supplementary Figure 3 | Electron -localization switching at 3 < n/n 0 < 4 in H -type 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. (a) Left: Peak intensity of emergent moiré exciton (EX) in the 

doping and vertical electric field two -dimensional parameter space at 3 < n/n 0 < 4. Right: Peak 

intensity of emergent trion (EXT) in the doping and vertical electric field two -dimensional 

parameter space at 3 < n/n 0 < 4. (b) Experimental reflection contrast spectrum of MoSe 2/WS 2

moiré superlattices with electron doping ranging from n/n 0 = 3 to 4 under a negative (lef t) and 

positive (right) electric field, respectively (zoom -in of Figures 1f and 1g in main text). The blue 

arrow indicates the EXT state. (c) The magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) spectrum 

corresponding to (b). 30 

Supplementary Figure 4 | Additional electron -localization switching behaviors in H -type 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. (a) Peak intensity of emergent moiré exciton (EX) in the 

doping and vertical electric field two -dimensional parameter space in device D2. The r ed arrow 

denotes the additional electron -localization switching behaviors at filling 2 < n/n 0 < 3 under a 

large negative electric field, in which case the original three -electron configuration under a 

moderate electric field is no longer stable. Blue arrow denotes the electron -localization switching 

behaviors at filling 3 < n/n 0 < 4, consistent with Supplementary Figure 3a. (b) Schematic 

showing the charge -transfer process indicated by the red arrow in (a). The transparent electron 

denotes an electric -field -switchable electron. (c) Schematic showing the charge -transfer process 

indicated by the blue arrow in (a). The transparent electron denotes an electric -field -switchable 

electron. 31 

# Electron localization of n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer state in R -type MoSe 2/WS 2

# moiré superlattices 

Here we analyze the possible electron localization for the n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer process 

in R -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices introduced in the main text. The n/n 0 = 3 transition 

appears at 𝐸 #,= ≈ 0.28 V/nm . As we show in the main text, at the field below 𝐸 #,=, the MoSe 2 side 

shows a strong EX resonance at n/n 0 = 3, while when the field is above 𝐸 #,=, the EX state switches 

to the LET state. Here, we also include the RC spectrum on the WS 2 side. In Supplementary Figure 

5a, the RC spectrum on the WS 2 side shows a well -defined exciton resonance at around 2.02 eV 

(pointed by the red arrow) and a trion resonance at a lower energy around 2 eV (pointed by the 

blue arrow). Supplementary Figure 5b further shows the intensity map of the WS 2 trion across the 

same doping and field range as in the main text (Figure 3d). The WS 2 trion persists for electric 

field s either below or above 𝐸 #,=, indicating that there is always one electron in the WS 2 layer 

across the applied electric field range at n/n 0 = 3. 

Therefore, the n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer process occurs with EX switching to LET on the 

MoSe 2 side, while the WS 2 trion remains unchanged. This scenario gives rise to two possible 

charge -transfer pathways, as illustrated in Supplementary Figures 5c and 5d. Specifically, one of 

the two electrons occupying the M site can either transfer to the singly occupied W site or to the 

unoccupied B Mo/S site (denoted as the W’ site ). 

The first transfer pathway requires a critical electric field 𝐸 #,= 

> B

~ (Δ" − 𝑈 + 𝑈 C)/(𝑒𝑑 ),

while the second requires 𝐸 #,= 

> D

~ (Δ5 − 𝑈 + 𝐽 C)/(𝑒𝑑 ). The difference between these critical 

electric fields is given by Δ𝐸 #,= = 𝐸 #,= 

> D

− 𝐸 #,= 

> B

∼ (Δ5 − Δ") − (𝑈 C − 𝐽 C), where Δ" (Δ5) denotes 

the potential energy difference between the B Se/W (BMo/S ) stacking , c10 (c24 ) band , in the WS 2 layer 

and the AA stacking , c1 band , in the MoSe 2 layer. Here, 𝑈 C represents the on -site Coulomb 32 

repulsion at the B Se/W stacking site, and 𝐽 C denotes the Coulomb interaction between B Se/W and 

BMo/S sites in the WS 2 layer. 

From DFT calculations, the c 24 band is approximately 45 meV higher than the c 10 band, 

implying Δ5 − Δ" ∼ 45 meV. The critical field required for the n/n 0 = 2 charge -transfer process is 

approximately Δ" − 𝑈 !. If the second pathway were energetically favored, the additional field 

required to reach the n/n 0 = 3 state would be (Δ5 − Δ") + 𝐽 C > 45 meV. However, experimentally, 

the increase in electric field from the n/n 0 = 2 to the n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer transition is small 

(less than 0.1 V/nm), corresponding to an energy scale of roughly 25 meV ( we use 𝜖 *%+ 𝜖 "𝐸 *%+ =

𝜖 )!F 𝜖 "𝐸 )!F , 𝐸 *%+ ≈ (𝑉 ) − 𝑉 %)/(2𝑑 ), and Δ = 𝑒 𝐸 )!F 𝑑 )!F , assuming a heterobilayer vertical 

distance of 𝑑 )!F ≈ 0.5 nm and effective out -of -plane dielectric constants 𝜖 *%+ = 3.5 and 𝜖 )!F =

7). Since this value is significantly smaller than the estimated lower bound, we conclude that the 

second transfer pathway is energetically unfavorable. 

Alternatively, if the first transfer pathway is favored, the required field energies follow the 

hierarchy: the n/n 0 = 1 transition occurs at approximately Δ", the n/n 0 = 2 transition at Δ" − 𝑈 !,

and the n/n 0 = 3 transition lies in between, i.e., Δ" − 𝑈 < Δ" − 𝑈 ! + 𝑈 C < Δ". This implies 𝑈 C <

𝑈 !. Given Δ" ∼ 100 meV and that the critical field for the n/n 0 = 2 transition is about 0.26 V/nm 

(corresponding to an electron energy of ~ 65 meV), we estimate 𝑈 ! ~ 35 meV, which leads to 

𝑈 C < 35 meV. Consequently, 𝑈 C − 𝐽 C must be much smaller than 45 meV (likely in the sub -

meV range), yielding Δ𝐸 # = 𝐸 # 

> D

− 𝐸 # 

> B

> 0, consistent with the first pathway being energetically 

favored. 

We therefore conclude that, for the n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer state, the most likely electron 

configuration correspond s to the case where one of the two electrons initially occupying the M site 33 

transfers to the singly occupied W site. This results in a singly occupied M site and a doubly 

occupied W site (Supplementary Figure 5c). 

Supplementary Figure 5 | Schematics of two electron -localization configuration candidates 

for the n/n 0 = 3 charge -transfer state in R -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices. (a) RC 

spectrum of the WS 2 layer at E = 0.22 V/nm. The blue arrow denotes the moiré trion state of 

WS 2 at n/n 0 = 3. (b) Doping -field 2D map of the peak intensity of WS 2 trion state. (c) Electrons 

are switched between the M and the W sites. (d) Electrons are switched between the M and the 

W’ site. 34 

# Electric field polarization curve in the noninteracting model 

In a two -state model without interactions, the LET intensity is given by 

at filling 1 < n/n 0 < 2, where N is the total number of moiré supercells, N1 is the number of moiré 

supercells with two electrons at the M site, Ne is the number of additionally doped electrons from 

n/n 0 = 1, 𝛿 = 𝑁 G/𝑁 = n/n" − 1 represents the doping level away from n/n 0 = 1, and 𝐸 5/, =

𝐸 " ± (𝑒𝐸 ℎ − Δ)/2 denote energies of the M and the W sites at electric field E, respectively. E0 is 

the mid -point energy used in the intermediate calculations and does not show up in the final 

expression. Supplementary Figure 6 shows examples of electric field polarization curves for LET 

and EX and the corresponding fitting results using the above pa rametric formula. 35 

Supplementary Figure 6 | Electric field polarization curve in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. (a) LET intensity as a function of electric field and its corresponding fitting at n/n 0

= 2. (b) EX intensity as a function of electric field and its corresponding fitting at n/n 0 = 2. 36 

# Theoretical calculations 

Structural Reconstruction: Aligned bilayer superlattices of MoSe 2/WS 2 were constructed at 0° 

and 60° with the TWISTER code 1. Experimental lattice constants of 3.28 Å for MoSe 2 and 3.15 Å 

for WS 2 were used. Classical force fields parametrized against van der Waals -corrected density 

functional theory (DFT) data were employed to relax the moiré superlattices. The Stillinger -

Weber 2 and Kolmogorov –Crespi 3,4 potentials were used to describe intralayer and interlayer 

interactions, respectively, as implemented with in the LAMMPS package 5.

Density functional theory: Density functional theory (DFT) calculations 6 of the reconstructed 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattice were performed with the SIESTA code 7. The exchange -correlation 

effects were treated using generalized gradient approximation following the Perdew -Burke -

Ernzerhof (PBE) implementation 8. Fully relativistic norm -conserving pseudopotentials 9,10 were 

employed to describe the interactions between valence electrons and ions. The self -consistent 

ground -state charge density was obtained by 𝛾 point sampling of the moiré Brillouin zone. The 

charge density was then used to construct the DFT Hamiltonian at arbitrary k-points across the 

moiré Brillouin zo ne, yielding the band structure and wavefunctions needed for subsequent 

excited -state calculations. Spin -orbit coupling was explicitly included in all calculations. 

Pristine unit -cell DFT calculations for the MoSe 2 layer were performed using the Quantum 

Espresso package 11 using identical pseudopotentials and exchange -correlation functional to the 

SIESTA calculations. The single -particle Kohn -Sham states were expanded in plane waves with a 

kinetic -energy cutoff of 40 Ry. The Brillouin zone was sampled with a 12 ×12 ×1 k-point grid to 

obtain the ground state charge density in an SCF cycle. 37 

GW -BSE: DFT reasonably describes the band dispersions but underestimates the bandgap. To 

correct the bandgap, we evaluated the quasiparticle energies within the GW self -energy 

approximation 12 for monolayer MoSe 2, as implemented in the BerkeleyGW package 13 . The DFT 

conduction bands of the reconstructed moiré superlattice were rigidly shifted using the resulting 

GW correction to the band gap at the K point. The static dielectric function 𝜖 and screened 

Coulomb interaction 𝑊 were evaluated within the random phase ap proximation, employing a 

plane -wave energy cutoff of 35 Ry and ~ 5000 unoccupied states. Extension of the dielectric 

function to finite frequencies was performed using the Hybertsen -Louie generalized plasmon -pole 

model 12 . The Coulomb potential was truncated in the out -of -plane direction to exclude the spurious 

effects of periodic images 14 . Convergence of the q-point sampling was enhanced through the 

nonuniform neck subsampling (NNS) technique 15 .

Electron -hole correlations were explicitly treated by the electron -hole interaction kernel in the 

Bethe –Salpeter equation (BSE) 16 . Brute force computation of the moiré electron -hole kernel is 

computationally intractable due to the large dimensionality of the moiré electronic wavefunctions. 

Therefore, the pristine unit -cell matrix projection (PUMP) method 17,18 was employed, which is 

described in detail below. PUMP is used to construct the moiré superlattice kernel by expressing 

it as a coherent linear combin ation of multiple pristine unit -cell kernel matrix elements. The BSE 

Hamiltonian for the reconstructed MoSe 2 superlattice was constructed using 24 valence and 24 

conduction bands, with 3 ×3×1 sampling of the moiré Brillouin zone. These moiré wavefunctions 

were expanded in terms of 48 valence and conduction states of the pristine superlattice. 38 

Screening was obtained for an AA -stacked MoSe 2/WS 2 heterobilayer in the primitive unit -cell to 

account for the effects of both the layers. The interlayer spacing was chosen to be 6.6 Å which is 

the average interlayer spacing found in the moiré superlattice. The static dielectric matrix, to 

compute the unit -cell kernel matrix elements was expanded in plane waves up to 4 Ry and 364 

unoccupied states. These pristine unit -cell kernel matri x elements were used to construct the moiré 

BSE Hamiltonian (more details below) which was diagonalized to obtain the exciton energy levels 

ΩH and the exciton envelope function 𝐴 IJ9  

> H

. We then compute the imaginary part of the dielectric 

function, 𝜖 ,(𝜔 ) and the absorption 𝐴 (𝜔 ) (Supplementary Figure 9). In the weakly absorbing limit, 

the absorption is expressed as 𝐴 (𝜔 ) = 3!(K)K:  

> I

where 𝑑 is the sample thickness equal to the average 

bilayer thickness of 9.8 Å. 

Pristine unit -cell matrix projection method: To obtain the moiré excitonic states, we solve the 

BSE: 

VE#𝐤  

> MN

− EO𝐤 

> MN

XA#O 𝐤  

> H

+ A q𝜓 O𝐤 

> HP

𝜓 #𝐤 

> HP

sKG* s𝜓 J%𝒌 % 

> HP

𝜓 I%𝒌 % 

> HP

uAI%J%𝒌 %

> H
> J%I%9%

= ΩHA#O 𝐤  

> H

, (1) 

where ER𝐤  

> MN

denotes the quasiparticle eigenvalues, 𝜓 R𝐤  

> HP

are the superlattice wavefunctions, A#O 𝐤  

> H

and 

ΩH are the exciton eigenfunctions and eigenvalues, respectively. The indices v, c, k, correspond to 

the valence band index, conduction band index, and crystal momentum, respectively. The electron -

hole interaction kernel KG* comprises an attractive direct term involving the screened Coulomb 

interaction and a repulsive exchange term. Evaluation of the kernel matrix elements scales as N⁵ 

with system size, making this a computational bottleneck for large moiré superlattices. The pristine 

unit -cell matrix projection (PUMP) method reformulates this problem by expressing moiré kernel 39 

as a linear combination of pristine unit -cell kernel matrix elements, yielding a substantial reduction 

in computational cost. 

In the PUMP method, the superlattice electronic wavefunctions are expanded in the basis of 

primitive unit -cell electronic states. Each valence ( |𝜓 O𝐤 

> HP

⟩) and conduction ( |𝜓 #𝐤 

> HP

⟩) state in the 

reconstructed MoSe 2 superlattice is expressed as a linear combination of many states of the pristine 

MoSe 2 superlattice: |𝜓 O𝐤 

> HP

⟩ = ∑ 𝑎 &

> O𝐤

|Φ&𝐤 

> OST

⟩& , |𝜓 #𝐤 

> HP

⟩ = ∑ 𝑎 &

> #𝐤

|Φ&𝐤 

> #URV

⟩& , where Φ&𝐤  

> OST

and Φ&𝐤  

> #URV

refer to 

the pristine superlattice wavefunctions of the valence and conduction states, respectively. The 

pristine superlattice states are in turn related to states in the primitive unit -cell BZ via band folding. 

We approximate each electron -hole interaction moiré kernel matrix element, KG* , of the BSE as 

a coherent sum over many pristine unit -cell kernel matrix elements, 

q𝜓 O𝐤 

> HP

𝜓 #𝐤 

> HP

sKG* s𝜓 O%𝐤 % 

> HP

𝜓 #%𝐤 % 

> HP

u

≈ A 𝑎 &

> O𝐤 ∗

𝑎 '

> #𝐤 ∗

𝑎 X

> O𝐤

𝑎 Y

> #𝐤

qΦ&𝐤 & 

> OST

Φ'𝐤 &

> #URV

s

> &'XY

KG* xΦX𝐤 & 

> %
> OST

ΦY𝐤 &

> %
> #URV

y, (2) 

≈ A 𝑎 &

> O𝐤 ∗

𝑎 '

> #𝐤 ∗

𝑎 X

> O𝐤

𝑎 Y 

> #𝐤

z𝜙 Z𝐤 '(  

> )
> OST

𝜙 [𝐤 '( 

> !
> #URV

x

> &'XY

KG* x 𝜙 \𝐤 '(  

> *
> OST

𝜙 (𝐤 '( 

> +
> #URV

y, (3) 

where 𝑖 and 𝑝 are pristine valence band indices, 𝑗 and 𝑞 are pristine conduction band indices in 

the superlattice. The pristine states 𝑖 𝐤 ], 𝑗 𝐤 ], 𝑝 𝐤 ] 

> $

and 𝑞 𝐤 ] 

> $

in the superlattice BZ are related to 

𝑠 𝐤 ^#  

> 5

, 𝑡 𝐤 ^#  

> ,

, 𝑦 𝐤 ^#  

> =

and 𝑧 𝐤 ^#  

> 1

in the unit -cell BZ by band folding, respectively. The kernel in eqn. 2 

corresponds to the pristine supercell matrix element, while the kernel matrix elements in eqn. 3 

refers to the pristine unit -cell matrix element. 40 

Moiré emergent exciton (EX) state: The EX peak appears in the optical spectrum when two 

electrons occupy the M site, corresponding to a ground state in which the c1 band is fully filled. 

To determine the real -space distribution of this EX state (Supplementary Figure 10), we construct 

the moiré kernel (eqn. 2) after excluding contributions from the c 1 moiré states. In this procedure, 

we retain the same screened Coulomb interaction 𝑊 , neglecting changes in screening 

corresponding to the removal of the c 1 band. 41 

Supplementary Figure 7 | Out -of -plane electron density of H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. c1 and c 2 bands are localized in the MoSe 2 layer; c 7 and c 20 bands are the first two 

lowest energy conduction band states derived from the K valley that are localized in the WS 2 layer. 

Supplementary Figure 8 | Out -of -plane electron density of R -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. c1 and c 2 bands are localized in the MoSe 2 layer; c 10 and c 24 bands are the first two 

lowest energy conduction band states that are derived from the K valley of the WS 2 layer. We 

observe some mixing of the c 10 and c 24 bands with the MoSe 2 states in the R -type configuration. 

# c1 c2

# c7 c20 

# c1 c2

# c10 c24 42 

Supplementary Figure 9 | Calculated absorption spectrum. Absorption spectrum of H -type 

MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré superlattices, calculated using first -principles GW -BSE calculations with the 

PUMP method. 

Supplementary Figure 10 | Real -space map of the EX state in H -type MoSe 2/WS 2 moiré 

superlattices. The plot shows the electron density of the exciton , |𝜒 (𝐫 𝐞 , 𝐫 𝐡 )|,, for fixed hole 

positions 𝐫 𝐡 (red dot) in the moiré superlattice.  

> M1
> M2
> M3
> M4
> AB
> BMo /W BSe /S

43 

# References 

1. Saismit Naik et al. Twister: Construction and structural relaxation of commensurate 

moiré superlattices. Computer Physics Communications 271 , 108184 (2022). 

2. Frank H. Stillinger, and Thomas A. Weber. Computer simulation of local order in 

condensed phases of silicon. Physical Review B 31 , 5262 (1985). 

3. Aleksey N. Kolmogorov, and Vincent H. Crespi. Registry -dependent interlayer potential 

for graphitic systems. Physical Review B 71 , 235415 (2005). 

4. Mit H. Naik et al. Kolmogorov -Crespi potential for multilayer transition -metal 

dichalcogenides: capturing structural transformations in moiré superlattices. The Journal 

of Physical Chemistry C 123 , 9770 -9778 (2019). 

5. Aidan P. Thompson et al. LAMMPS -a flexible simulation tool for particle -based 

materials modeling at the atomic, meso, and continuum scales. Computer Physics 

Communications 271 , 108171 (2022). 

6. Walter Kohn, and Lu Jeu Sham. Self -consistent equations including exchange and 

correlation effects. Physical Review 140 , A1133 (1965). 

7. José M. Soler et al. The SIESTA method for ab initio order -N materials simulation. 

Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 14 , 2745 (2002). 

8. John P. Perdew, Kieron Burke, and Matthias Ernzerhof. Generalized gradient 

approximation made simple. Physical Review Letters 77 , 3865 (1996). 

9. D. R. Hamann. Optimized norm -conserving Vanderbilt pseudopotentials. Physical 

Review B 88 , 085117 (2013). 

10. Michiel J. Van Setten et al. The PseudoDojo: Training and grading a 85 element 

optimized norm -conserving pseudopotential table. Computer Physics Communications 

226 , 39 -54 (2018). 

11. Paolo Giannozzi et al. QUANTUM ESPRESSO: a modular and open -source software 

project for quantum simulations of materials. Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 21 ,

395502 (2009). 

12. Mark S. Hybertsen, and Steven G. Louie. Electron correlation in semiconductors and 

insulators: Band gaps and quasiparticle energies. Physical Review B 34 , 5390 (1986). 

13. Jack Deslippe et al. BerkeleyGW: A massively parallel computer package for the 

calculation of the quasiparticle and optical properties of materials and nanostructures. 

Computer Physics Communications 183 , 1269 -1289 (2012). 

14. Sohrab Ismail -Beigi. Truncation of periodic image interactions for confined systems. 

Physical Review B 73 , 233103 (2006). 

15. Felipe H. da Jornada, Diana Y. Qiu, and Steven G. Louie. Nonuniform sampling schemes 

of the Brillouin zone for many -electron perturbation -theory calculations in reduced 

dimensionality. Physical Review B 95 , 035109 (2017). 

16. Michael Rohlfing, and Steven G. Louie. Electron -hole excitations and optical spectra 

from first principles. Physical Review B 62 , 4927 (2000). 44 

17. Mit H. Naik et al. Intralayer charge -transfer moiré excitons in van der Waals 

superlattices. Nature 609 , 52 -57 (2022). 

18. Hongyuan Li et al. Imaging moiré excited states with photocurrent tunnelling 

microscopy. Nature Materials 23 , 633 -638 (2024).