Title: A Modular Cryogenic Link for Microwave Quantum Communication Over Distances of Tens of Meters

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.15971v1

Published Time: Mon, 20 Apr 2026 00:54:41 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
# A Modular Cryogenic Link for Microwave Quantum Communication Over Distances of Tens of Meters 

Josua D. Sch¨ ar, 1, 2, ∗ Simon Storz, 1, 2 Paul Magnard, 1 Philipp Kurpiers, 1 Janis L¨ utolf, 1

Melvin Gehrig, 1 Jean-Claude Besse, 1, 2 Anatoly Kulikov, 1, 2 and Andreas Wallraff 1, 2, †

> 1

Department of Physics, ETH Zurich, CH-8093 Zurich, Switzerland 

> 2

Quantum Center, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland 

(Dated: April 20, 2026) Quantum technologies promise a radically new way to solve classically intractable computing problems. Superconducting circuits as a platform are at the forefront of this field. The cryogenic operation temperatures of superconducting circuits however impose challenges for the further scaling to many connected quantum information processing units into a local area or global network. In this work, we present a hardware solution for connecting quantum devices operating at microwave frequencies into local area networks, which enable the exchange of quantum information between spatially separated parties. Specifically, we demonstrate a modular system spanning distances of 5, 10 and 30 meters operated at cryogenic temperatures and connecting two superconducting circuit systems, located in individual dilution refrigerators, through a quantum communication channel. We develop a thermal model to evaluate the heat transfer processes in the setup, optimize the design and select appropriate materials for its construction. The assembled 30-meter-long system achieves operating temperatures of below 50 mK after a cooldown time of about six and a half days. This link enables the execution of distributed quantum computing and communication algorithms. It also adds the resource of non-locality, certified by a loophole-free Bell test, to the field of quantum science and technology with superconducting circuits. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Interconnecting multiple quantum processors to form a network is a promising approach to scaling up quantum computers [1, 2]. Quantum computing systems operat-ing in the microwave regime, such as superconducting circuits or charges and spins in semiconductor quantum dots, require temperatures in the millikelvin regime for robustness against thermal noise and initialization in the ground state [3, 4]. Despite the recent progress in the development of microwave-to-optical transducers [5–11], which would allow coupling microwave-based quantum processors through room-temperature optical fibers, no such system can currently combine the required conver-sion efficiency, bandwidth, added noise and heat loads at practical levels [12]. At microwave frequencies, however, superconducting circuits can be interfaced with photons with near unit fidelity [13–18]. This scheme benefits from high-fidelity, deterministic [19–21], bidirectional [22, 23] or error correctable [24] quantum communication proto-cols. Unlike optical photons in fiber optics, microwave photons must propagate in a cryogenic environment to reduce photon loss [25] and the thermal background to acceptable levels [26, 27]. In this article, we present a cryogenic link spanning a distance of 30 meters and connecting two dilution cryostats with quantum chips inside. This unique setup enables the exchange of quantum information and the distribution of entanglement between superconducting   

> ∗josua.schaer@phys.ethz.ch
> †andreas.wallraff@phys.ethz.ch

qubits over meter-scale linear distances [28] based on single microwave photons. It also provides access to the resource of non-locality available to superconduct-ing-circuit-based systems [29–31]. Building a large-scale cryogenic system spanning tens of meters comes with the challenge of optimizing the ther-mal performance of the setup. We discuss the choice of materials, the design of components and important as-pects in the thermal engineering of the system. The insights we present are generally applicable in the de-velopment of cryogenic systems with similar require-ments [32, 33]. The article is structured as follows. In Section II we present the basic concept and general structure of the modular cryogenic quantum link, and outline the func-tions of individual modules. We review the most impor-tant design criteria in Section III, describing the specific design choices we made to realize our cryogenic link. We discuss the performance of cooldowns of systems with a length of 5, 10 and 30 meters in Section IV. We further estimate distance scales potentially achievable with this type of setup. Finally, we summarize and discuss poten-tial system improvements in Section V. 

II. MODULAR DESIGN CONCEPT 

To realize quantum communication in a cryogenic mi-crowave channel, we engineer, assemble and demonstrate a distributed modular cryogenic system capable of hous-ing superconducting qubits at each node. The system is composed of two dilution refrigerators connected through a cryogenic link with an additional pulse tube cooler po-sitioned in the middle of the system, see Fig. 1(a). We 

> arXiv:2604.15971v1 [quant-ph] 17 Apr 2026

2constructed the cryogenic link from several individual modules to facilitate the manufacturing, assembly, main-tenance, and extension of the system. The design of the modules of the cryogenic microwave link is inspired by that of a standard dilution refrigerator. A dilution refrigerator [34] typically contains four tem-perature stages. The two higher temperature stages are cooled to approximately 50 K and 4 K with a two-stage pulse tube cooler [see Fig. 1(a)]. Millikelvin temperatures are reached with a 3He /4He dilution unit, effectively cool-ing the still stage to about 1 K and the base temperature stage to approximately 10 mK. Radiation shields screen thermal radiation from higher temperature stages and are made out of copper or aluminium. To provide thermal isolation of the stages from the room-temperature envi-ronment, dilution refrigerators are typically housed in an O-ring-sealed aluminium vacuum container which is ini-tially evacuated to 10 −4 mbar to suppress heat exchange by convection of residual gas. As in a dilution refrigerator, each cryogenic module of our microwave quantum link consists of a set of concen-tric copper radiation shields enclosed by a vacuum can at room temperature, Figs. 1(b),(c). In this arrangement we achieve the aforementioned typical dilution-refrigerator temperatures also along the link. For quantum communication between the nodes we use a rectangular aluminium WR90 waveguide [35] (specified in the Electronic Industries Alliance standards). An al-ternative approach requiring less space is to route super-conducting coaxial cables [36] between the nodes. How-ever, in general, such cables are more lossy than waveg-uides of the same material [25]. Our waveguide is housed inside the innermost radiation shield cooled to the low-est temperature achievable in our system. We mount a superconducting circuit in its dedicated sample pack-age at each node to perform quantum experiments [28– 31]. We connect the ends of the rectangular waveguide to the superconducting circuits using a waveguide to coaxial adapter and a coaxial microwave cable. We designed and manufactured four principal modules to construct the entire link assembly connecting the two nodes of the system. 

Link modules are the primary building block of the cryogenic link, covering most of the distance between the nodes. A module spans a distance of 2 .5 m when measured from the waveguide flange on one side to the corresponding one on the other end. Figure 1(d) shows a cross-sectional CAD drawing of a link module. The copper radiation shields are shorter than the waveguide on both sides, with their lengths staggered in decreas-ing order from base temperature radiation shield to the aluminium vacuum can. This design ensures good acces-sibility of each stage during the assembly of the link. The radiation shields within a link module are sep-arated from and mechanically supported by each other using two sets of three thin-walled posts [Fig. 1(e)]. The waveguide is held in place inside the base temperature shield by brass holders, see yellow parts around the wave-guide in Figure 1(e). We designed the radiation shields with an octagonal cross-section rather than a cylindrical one to facilitate the mounting of elements on the shields, such as the flanges of the thermal braids, mechanical supports, or temperature sensors. The octagonal shields are assembled from two half-shells joined with screws along the link axis. Using welded shields instead would reduce leakage of thermal radiation, but reduce the accessibility to mount compo-nents on the shield like support posts. An adapter module follows the same concept as a link module, where one end comes with the same stagger-ing profile of the radiation shields as in a link module, while the other end is adapted to connect to the cryo-stat flanges. These flanges are a custom modification of a standard Bluefors LD dilution refrigerator [see Fig. 1(h)]. 

Braid modules are used to connect link modules to each other or adapter to link modules. Its function is to allow for movements of mechanical components with respect to each other, which are induced by thermal contraction of radiation shields, while providing good thermal conduc-tion between the modules. This is achieved by a set of 5 to 8 flexible and highly conductive copper braids on every temperature stage. The gap between any two adjacent radiation shields is in addition closed by short copper shields installed below the copper braids to screen ther-mal radiation [see Fig. 1(f)]. To assemble a braid mod-ule, we close each temperature stage separately starting with the base temperature and ending with the vacuum can. The staggered lengths of the link and adapter mod-ules provide the space required for the attachment of the braids. We position a cooling unit , containing a pulse tube cooler without a dilution unit, between the nodes of the cryogenic link to bridge distances ≳ 20 m [see Fig. 1(a),(g)]. The cooling unit provides additional cool-ing power required to operate the system, without the cooling unit the 50 K radiation shields in the middle of the link would become too hot and heat up the colder temperature stages considerably, causing the cooling to fail; see Section IV. A description of the custom cooling unit that we have designed and built is in Appendix A. To assemble the cryogenic link, we first position the nodes and cooling units at the desired location in the lab-oratory and attach the corresponding adapter modules. Then we position and align each link module mounted on stable supports one by one between the adapter modules. Finally, we close the connections between the segments by assembling the braid modules. Methods to ensure good thermal contact and discover radiation leaks are discussed in Appendix B.  

> III. DESIGN AND MATERIAL OPTIMIZATIONS

A key aspect in the successful engineering of a cryo-genic link is the understanding of heat transfer in the sys-350K 4K 1K (still) 10mK (base) Vacuum Can Waveguide     

> 20 cm (f)
> 2.5 m
> 5 cm (e) (a) (d) (b) (c)
> LM 4xLM BM BM BM AM AM NCU
> (h)
> (g)

FIG. 1. (a) Longitudinal cross-section of a schematic representation (left half) and a 3D model (right half) of a 30 m cryogenic link system. The link is composed of four adapter modules (AM), 12 braid modules (BM), 10 link modules (LM), one cooling unit (CU), and two nodes (N). (b) Schematic representation, and (c) photograph of a transverse cross-section of a link module. (d) Longitudinal cross-section of the 3D model of a link module. (e) Enlarged cross-sectional view of a set of posts (blue), which provide mechanical support for the radiation shields. (f) A top view photograph of a braid module connecting two link modules. For demonstration purposes, only the lower half of the braid module is assembled and closed with radiation shields, braids and multi-layer insulation. The blue arrows indicate the direction in which the copper shields of the link modules move during a cooldown due to thermal contraction, see discussion in Section III 3. (g) A photograph of a part of the 30-m-long cryogenic setup close to the cooling unit in the middle. (h) A photograph showing the flanges of a node with an attached base shield of an adapter module. 

tem, which generally consists of two counteracting contri-butions. First, every temperature stage is exposed to heat load stemming from thermal radiation between radiation shields and from finite thermal conduction through the mechanical support structures. Both effects deliver heat from higher to lower temperature stages of the system. Second, this distributed heat load generates a heat flow 

along the radiations shields transporting thermal energy towards heat sinks located at the nodes and the cooling unit. This heat flow generates a temperature gradient inside the shields and braids, and temperature drops at contact interfaces e.g. between the modules of the link. In steady state, the heat load is in balance with the heat flow towards the sink at every position and temperature stage along the link, defining the temperatures of indi-vidual elements. An additional constraint in designing the cryogenic system is the material-dependent thermal contraction of its components during each cooldown and warm-up, which requires a mechanically flexible structure between the modules and different temperature stages to avoid physical damage. 

1. Decreasing the heat loads 

We quantitatively want to estimate the radiative heat load impinging on each temperature stage of the sys-tem and compare it to the cooling power available at the nodes. We calculate the thermal radiation ac-cording to the Stefan-Boltzmann law, see Eq. (C1) in Appendix C for typical temperatures i.e., from base shield (0 .01 K) over still (1 K) and 4K shields (4 K) to the 50K shield (50 K) with the laboratory including the vacuum can at (293 K). For the Copper shields and the Aluminium can we use typical emissivities of 4

ϵCu ≃ 0.025 and ϵAl ≃ 0.05 [37, 38]. The radiative heat load on each temperature stage is on the order of (10 −9, 10 −6, 0.01 , 10) W/m 2 from base to 50K. At the temperatures mentioned above, the nodes have a cooling power of (4 ∗ 10 −6, 2 ∗ 10 −2, 0.5, 14) W, [see Table III in Appendix G]. Below the 50K stage the cooling power is orders of magnitude larger than the radiative heat load per unit area. But on the 50K stage for a 30-meter-long cryogenic link with a surface area of ∼ 20 m 2 the radiative heat load is around 200 W. Using only copper shields would heat up the 50K stages in the nodes to over ∼ 250 K. Each node has an internal coldtrap installed on the 50K stage, which is used to capture and remove contami-nants like gases and water vapour in the dilution unit. For proper operation, these coldtraps must remain below 77 K, which is not possible with such a high radiation heat load. In order to overcome this large heat load, we in-stall multi-layer insulation (MLI) [39, 40] on the outer surface of the 50K radiation shield. With this mea-sure, we decrease the emissivity of φrad ≈ 6.4 W/m 2 to 

φrad ≈ 1 W/m 2 (see Appendix D). The reduced heat load enables efficient cooling of the 50K temperature stage be-low 77 K at the nodes. The result shows that the use of MLI is a crucial element to lower the radiation heat loads on the 50K radiation shield. The MLI itself consists of a set of plastic foils coated with a thin aluminium layer as reflective surfaces sep-arated from each other by thin polyester or glass fiber nets. The principle of these multiple layers is to reflect back a large percentage of the irradiated heat load at each layer [41, 42]. Figure 2(a) shows the installed customized MLI with 30 layers in total [43]. The two blankets of MLI with 15 layers each are wrapped around the shield, and fixed with hook-and-loop fasteners. The fasteners of the two blankets are designed not to overlap, reducing ra-diation leakage through them, see white stripes at the ends of the MLI in Figure 2(a). We covered the remain-ing gap between two adjacent MLI blankets with reflec-tive aluminium tape to reduce heat leaking through the gaps [44, 45]. The second contribution to the heat load origi-nates from conduction through the support posts [see Fig. 1(e)]. We minimize this conductive heat load by selecting Bluestone , a 3D printed nano-composite mate-rial in a stereo lithography process followed by a tem-pering step [46]. Compared to other tested materials, Bluestone has the highest yield strength to thermal con-ductivity ratio among the materials we investigated (see Appendix E).  

> 2. Optimizing heat transport

In order to minimize the temperature gradient along the link and thus minimize the temperature in the mid-dle between the cooling nodes, we construct the radiation (a)   

> (b)
> FIG. 2. (a) Photograph of an adapter module connected to the cooling unit of the 30 m link with the multi layer insu-lation installed on the 50K shield (silver foil). (b) Detailed photograph of the waveguide installed inside the open base temperature shield.

shields using high-purity copper, which is one of the best cost-effective thermal conductors at cryogenic tempera-tures [34]. In addition, surface oxides can be removed from copper surfaces efficiently before installation [47]. The surfaces are stable in dry and inert atmospheres as in the vacuum can, maintaining low emissivity and low contact resistances when mated with other copper parts. Three common types of copper have high thermal conductivity, ranging in purity from 99 .9% to 99 .99%: Electrolytic-tough-pitch (ETP) copper, oxygen-free (OF) copper and oxygen-free electronic (OFE) copper. The impurity limits for other elements are specified differently in the corresponding standards [48]. We measured the thermal conductivity ρ of these three pure copper grades to select a suitable type. At room temperature, ρ differs only by a few per mil for these types, but at cryogenic temperatures the level and type of impurities in the material becomes relevant and ρ can vary by orders of magnitude [34, 49] (see Appendix F). To extract the thermal conductivity ρ, we placed copper test strips in a vacuum chamber and cooled them using liquid helium to approximately 4.2 K, the method is described in detail in the Appendix F. In summary, the OFE copper available to us showed a conductivity of ρOFE ≈ 1400 W/(Km) at 4 .2 K, sig-nificantly higher than ETP ρETP ≈ 700 W/(Km) or the best OF copper ρOF ≈ 500 W/(Km) we measured (see Appendix F for details). 5In addition to material selection, the thicknesses of the four radiation shields—and thus the thermal con-ductance—are adjusted to the expected heat load. The largest heat load is on the 50K shield, mainly due to the thermal radiation, and the smallest for the base temper-ature shield. Heavier shields need thicker support posts, which in turn leads to higher heat load from the posts. We chose thicknesses of 3 mm for 50K, of 2 mm for 4K, and of 1 mm for the two lowest temperature shields [50]. Each mechanical interface between a radiation shield and a braid creates a thermal contact resistance. In a test setup (see Appendix D) we observed that at cryo-genic temperatures the contact resistance depends on the temperature as Rcontact ∝ T −2 [51], while at the same time below ∼ 10 K the characteristic thermal resistance of braids (bulk copper) scales as Rbulk ∝ T −1 [34]. As a consequence, the contact resistance contributes signifi-cantly at the 4K stage and dominates over the bulk resis-tance of the braids at still and base temperatures. More-over, the contact resistance also depends on the force pressing the two parts together, on the thickness of the oxide layer and on the surface roughness [51]. There-fore, contact resistances are best determined in test mea-surements close to the real conditions by using the same components, manufacturing processes and assembly. In general, to efficiently thermalize parts or devices below 50K stage, we minimize the number of contact in-terfaces along the cooling path. Our modular link intro-duces two contact interfaces on every temperature stage for each braid module, and one for each adapter module. We utilise the available space of the braids to fit as many screws as possible and tighten the screws with appropri-ate torque. We have electropolished the contact surfaces and added Apiezon N grease with the intention to reduce thermal contact resistances at these interfaces, which can significantly lower Rcontact as discussed in [51].  

> 3. Thermal expansion

Copper and aluminium parts contract up to 3.25 mm/m [34] and 4 .15 mm/m [52] between room and millikelvin temperatures. As a consequence, the length of a base temperature radiation shield in a link module shrinks by about 8 mm. Notably, the cooling rates and final temperatures of the temperature stages differ, lead-ing to different thermal contraction. For the design of the link, it is therefore important to consider this effect to avoid mechanical stress and poten-tial damage in the support structure. Accordingly, we fixed the support posts in the link module to only one of the adjacent shields, allowing the two shields to slide against each other in the longitudinal direction of the link and thus eliminating thermal stress in the posts [see Fig. 1 (d),(e)]. As described in Sec. II, braid modules provide flexible, high thermally-conductive connections between any two link modules. These braids are designed with an excess length of 12 mm at room temperature to allow for the thermal contraction of the radiation shields, indicated with the blue arrows in Figure 1(f), without creating mechanical stress. The short copper shields un-derneath the braids are attached with screws to a radi-ation shield in one link module for thermalization, and the other end can freely slide over the radiation shield of the other link module. Thermal contraction further imposes a challenge for the aluminium waveguide, consisting of individual sec-tions, connected rigidly with screws to form a low-loss quantum channel. With a total contraction of 125 mm along the distance of 30 meters during a cooldown, we ensure a sufficient mobility of the waveguide along the longitudinal direction in the base temperature shield. For this purpose we use a brass stand covered with a Teflon sheet [see Fig. 2 (b)], which, thanks to its low friction, prevents the waveguide from sticking and exerting stress on the base temperature radiation shields. We use cop-per braids with an excess length of 150 mm to thermalize the waveguide and allowing it to slide inside the base temperature shield. This leaves a margin of 25 mm com-pared to the expected contraction of the waveguide in the 30-meter-long link. Finally, we use flexible coaxial microwave cables to connect the waveguide to the su-perconducting circuits installed in the nodes (see Section IV 3). Aluminium becomes superconducting below Tc =1.2 K [53]. With this phase transition, the thermal con-ductivity drops sharply and can reach values of ρAL =10 −6 W/(Km) at 50 mK comparable to thermal insula-tors [34]. We therefore thermalise the waveguide to the base temperature shield with copper braids every 0 .20 m [see Fig. 2 (b)].  

> IV. THERMAL PERFORMANCE OF THE LINK

Over the course of the development of the cryogenic link, we have assembled and cooled down three systems bridging distances of 5 m, 10 m and 30 m. The cooldown of a 5 m and a 10 m link served as an initial assess-ment of the modular system performance [28] and its scalability to the length of 30 m targeted to enable a loophole-free Bell test with superconducting circuits [29]. The steady-state temperature profiles recorded during cooldowns of the 5 and 10-m systems allowed us to model the thermal processes in the link and plan for the 30-meter-long system, see Appendix C.  

> 1. Measured temperature profiles

To monitor the temperature profile during each cooldown, we installed up to 48 temperature sensors along the cryogenic link (see Appendix H). Figure 3 (a-c) shows the measured steady-state temperatures on all temperature stages along the cryogenic link for the 5, 10, and 30-m systems. Due to the thermal diffusivity of cop-640 60 80 T50K  (K) 3456T4K  (K) .6 .7 .8 .9 Tstill  (K)    

> -2.5 0. 2.5 020 40 60

position, x (m) TBT  (mK)       

> -5. -2.5 0. 2.5 5.

position, x (m)          

> -15 -10 -50510 15

position, x (m) 40 3456.6 .7 .8 .9 60 80 020 40 60 (a) (b) (c)   

> FIG. 3. Steady-state temperature distribution of the (a) 5-m-long, (b) 10-m-long and (c) 30-m-long cryogenic link. The pictograms above the plots represent the cryogenic prototypes and the temperature sensor positions (dots) in scale with the x-axis. The solid lines are results of the thermal model simulations.

per, a property characterizing how fast a material can transport heat away [37], the 50K stage takes the longest to reach steady state. The temperatures were recorded 4 to 7 days after condensing the 3He /4He mixture and reaching millikelvin temperatures on the base plates in the nodes. As expected, the temperature profiles in gen-eral exhibit a convex shape with minima at the cooling points. We find that on all stages the temperatures and the temperature gradients along the link increase with the length of the system. Over the entire 30-meter-long system, the 50K stage remains below 80 K, reaching its maximum at the midpoint between the nodes and the cooling unit. A similar observation is made for the 4K stage, which stays below 6 K. The 4K and still stage temperature profiles show some asymmetry at the nodes. We attribute this difference to the thermal-shield design improvements made by the manufacturer for the dilution cryostat on the right-hand-side node, which was acquired separately and later than the left-hand-side one. The base temperature along the link remains below 50 mK everywhere and for all three systems. At the nodes base temperatures of 10 to 15 mK are reached, which is similar to the typical values in a single dilution refriger-ator. The largest temperature gradients between two subse-quent modules are found between the heat sink in the nodes and the adapter module from the 50K to the still stage. This is due to a less optimized selection of mate-rials for the dilution refrigerator radiation shields, which show a lower thermal conductivity than the copper used in the link. The interfaces between the radiation shields of the dilution refrigerator and the mounted flanges con-necting the adapter module to the node cause significant contact resistance [54]. A possible reason could be the stainless steel screws used to assemble these parts, be-cause the thermal contraction of stainless steel is lower than the one of copper, causing to lower the preload when cooling down. In addition to measuring the temperatures directly, we simulate the temperature profiles and compare the re-sults. In a first step, we use a finite element software and a 3D model of the system to get the steady-state temperature distribution of the 50K stage. We use the independently determined material properties listed in Appendix G Table III as input parameters. We set the vacuum can temperature to 293 K and the temperatures 7at the nodes of the 50K stage to their measured values as the only boundary conditions. The finite element method calculates the temperature distribution in the 3D model iteratively to approximate the temperature profile in the 50K stage; it also takes the temperature of the stage itself into account to determine the radiative and conductive heat load. In a second step, using the obtained temperature pro-file of the 50K stage, we recursively simulate the tem-perature profiles of the lower temperature stages. We use numerical calculations and the thermal model in Ap-pendix C with the material properties as input parame-ters and the temperature profile of the next hotter stage as boundary condition. The simulated temperature profiles are shown with solid lines in Figure 3. Overall, our model is in good agreement with the temperatures measured in all three systems. We observe discrete jumps in the modeled tem-peratures at the interfaces between modules due to ther-mal contact resistance, relevant at the still and base stages. There is a minor discrepancy between the mea-sured and simulated temperatures for the base stage on the right-hand-side of the 30-m-long link. This differ-ence could arise from calibration errors in the tempera-ture sensors, which we calibrated ourselves, or from other factors such as variations in the contact resistance.  

> 2. Cool down and dwell times

The time to cool down to the base temperature of slightly below 20 mK at the node cryostats of links with lengths 5, 10 and 30 meters is 2, 3.5 and 6.5 days, respec-tively. For comparison, a single dilution cryostat needs around 1.5 days. With each of the three different-length systems, the condensation process of the 3He /4He mix-ture, necessary to reach millikelvin temperatures, from pulse tube temperatures ( ≈ 4 K) took less than eight hours, similar to a dilution cryostat. The cool down dy-namics of the 30 meter system is discussed in more detail in Appendix I. After about two weeks, the 30-meter-long system reaches the lowest temperature configuration. Beyond that, the temperature of the 50K shield begins to slowly increase with time at a rate of about 0 .2 K/day in the cen-ter between a node and the cooling unit, and 0 .1 K/day at the nodes. We assume the increase in the tempera-ture of the 50K stage is due to the gas diffusion through the O-rings of the vacuum can [55], and we hypothe-size that this gas condenses on the surface of the MLI on the 50K shielding, causing its reflectivity to decrease over time [36]. This effect does limit the operation time of the system by causing too much heat load on the 50K stage or by substantially heating up the underlying 4K stage by increased thermal radiation from the hot 50K shield and heat load through the support posts. With O-ring sealed vacuum flanges the hold time of the 30-meter-link is about 6 months. This time could be increased by us-ing better seals, such as the ones used in the CF flanges standard for ultra high vacuum ( < 1 ∗ 10 −7 mbar) [56]. We also observe that warming up the system to ≈ 230 K and evacuating the vacuum can restores the system and allows for the following cooldown to proceed nominally.  

> 3. Properties of the quantum channel

For quantum communication experiments [28–31], we use the transversal electric mode TE 10 [57] of a WR90 rectangular waveguide made from aluminium as a mi-crowave quantum channel. The attenuation factor of the waveguide was measured to be α < 1 dB/km [58], us-ing the same methods as in [25, 54]. The loss in the 30-meter-long channel is therefore lower than 0 .03 dB. In current experiments [30, 31], the photon transfer loss (0 .55 to 0 .65 dB) is likely dominated by the connection between the superconducting chip, the sample package and the rectangular waveguide on each node. It incorpo-rates transitions from on-chip coplanar waveguides to a printed circuit board via wirebonds, then a sub-miniature push-on (SMP) connector is soldered on the printed cir-cuit board to route the photon to a coaxial cable. The cable is connected to the end of the rectangular wave-guide using a waveguide-to-coax adapter. Some of the components are not superconducting and in total they cause more loss than the waveguide itself [58].  

> 4. Temperature profile extrapolation

Having constructed and carefully characterized cryo-genic links of three different lengths, we are now in po-sition to extrapolate the temperature profile simulations for longer cryogenic link systems. Specifically, we are in-terested in estimating the maximum length of a cryogenic link one should be able to realize using the architecture described in this paper. We determine this length by extracting thresholds from the developed thermal model and based on the three criteria forming a prerequisite for a successful system cooldown and operation: i The highest temperature of the 4 K plate, at which we know from internal experiments that Helium can be successfully condensed (using Bluefors LD series di-lution refrigerators), is 5 .2 K. This temperature must therefore not be exceeded at the end nodes. ii The still plate in a dilution refrigerator must remain below 1 .2 K. As this limit is approached, we observe the base-plate temperature rising and becoming un-stable. iii To assert low thermal population [59, 60] of the qubits operated in the dilution refrigerators at the nodes, we target base plate temperatures below 50 mK. While the first two criteria are necessary for the op-eration of our dilution refrigerators and must be met, 8the third may differ depending on the application, reset schemes [61] or communication protocols used [26, 62]. Given these criteria, we first determine the temper-ature profile of link systems at lengths from 2 .5 m to 30 m without additional cooling units installed along the length of the link. The resulting temperatures at the nodes Tc and the highest ones in the middle of the link 

Th at all temperature stages are displayed in Figure 4 (a). Both Tc and Th increase with the link length l, while Th

is more affected. The 4 K plate exceeds 5 .2 K (criterion (i)) around a length of 20 m marked in Fig. 4 (a) with an orange dot. Criteria (ii) and (iii) for still and base tem-perature fail for lengths beyond 20 m due to significant temperature increase on all stages. To bridge larger distances with our cryogenic link ar-chitecture, additional cooling units between the nodes, cooling the 50K and 4K stages, are required. Our simula-tions suggest that with cooling units installed every 15 m along the cryogenic link, the system could be extended to a length of 120 m until criterion (iii) on the base stage is violated [see Fig. 4 (b)]. This would, for example, allow the realization of a cryogenic link between neighboring buildings using the presented modular design. (a) (b) link length, l (m)40 60 80 100                

> 2.5 5. 7.5
> 1234
> 030 60 90 120 150 0200 400 600 T 50K  (K)T4K  (K)Tstill  (K)
> link length, l (m)
> TBT  (mK )50 100 150 200
> 10 20 30 40
> 1234
> 010 20 30 0200 400 600
> TTch
> FIG. 4. Lowest (solid dots) and highest (open dots) tem-peratures along the cryogenic link vs link length determined from our thermal model (see Appendix C) for: (a) a cryo-genic link without additional cooling units, (b) a cryogenic link with additional cooling units installed every 15 m. The orange dots highlight the length at which a performance cri-terion for successful link operation is violated (see main text). The grey trapezoids between figures (a) and (b) visualize the temperature rescaling.
> V. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK

In this work, we presented a modular cryogenic link for microwave quantum communication connecting two dilu-tion refrigerators. We discussed design aspects essential for the realization of a cryogenic link with a length of up to 30 m. The modular design facilitates the manufactur-ing and engineering process as well as the assembly of the system. Our 30-m-long cryogenic link reaches base tem-perature of less than 50 mK along the entire length of the link. With the cooldown time not exceeding one week, it provides up to half a year of continuous operation with a stable base temperature profile. The excellent cryogenic performance of our system demonstrates the robustness of the modular design. The good agreement between the simulation of the thermal model and the measured temperature profile shows evi-dence that the extracted thermal parameters are reliable and the simplified thermal model is a very good approxi-mation for the complex heat transfers in the system. We further used the model to estimate the feasible length of cryogenic links, showing that cryogenic networks with a length of up to 120 m are achievable by using additional cooling units at the 50K and 4K stages every 15 m. Fur-ther extension to hundreds of metres is expected to be possible by adding extra dilution refrigerators along the length of the link. Building a quantum local area network connecting sev-eral nodes in a grid over tens of meters without additional cooling units could be achieved with further optimization of the design and material selection. For example, the ra-diation heat load on the 4K stage can be lowered by in-stalling multi-layer insulation. To achieve larger thermal conductivity along the link, the copper radiation shields can be oxygen annealed after manufacturing [49, 63]. The cryogenic link was successfully used as a quan-tum communication channel with a length of 5 m [28] and extended to 30 m for a loophole-free Bell test [29] and two successive device-independent experiments uti-lizing it: complete self-testing of a system of remote su-perconducting qubits [30] and device-independent ran-domness amplification [31]. This suggests that our modular design can be used to realize a setup for quantum networks [26, 64], for the exploration of de-vice-independent physics [65–69], and for non-Markovian waveguide QED [70–72]. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank Reto Schlatter, Niti Kohli, and Alain Fauquex for laboratory space preparation, pre-assembly of the 30-m-link modules and ordering of components; Raphael Keller and Adrian Schwarzer for contributions to early prototype design and realization; Fabian Marxer, Manuel Hindering, Simon Wili and Theo Walter for as-sistance with prototype assembly and thermal analy-sis; Nicholas Meinhardt for contributions to waveguide 9loss measurements and thermalization design; Bahadir D¨ onmez, Milan Lezaic, Kirill Feldman, and Josef-Anton Agner for technical support. We thank Gianni Blatter for valuable comments on the manuscript. We also thank the workshop teams of the Department of Physics of ETH Zurich and the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI) for the fast and reliable production of mechanical components of the cryogenic setup. This work was supported by the Eu-ropean Research Council (ERC) through the “Supercon-ducting Quantum Networks” (SuperQuNet) project, by the European Union’s Horizon 2020 FET-Open project SuperQuLAN (grant no. 899354), by the National Cen-tre of Competence in Research “Quantum Science and Technology” (NCCR QSIT), a research instrument of the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF), and by ETH Zurich. 

> Appendix A: CUSTOM BUILT RADIATION SHIELD COOLING SYSTEM

As explained in Sec. II, operating a 30-meter-long cryo-genic link at sufficiently low temperatures requires in-stalling an additional cooling unit in the center of the system. For this purpose, we designed and assembled a pulse-tube based cryostat to provide additional cooling power at the 50K and 4K temperature stages at a de-sired location along the link. In this section, we discuss the main features of this cooling unit. The vacuum chamber and the radiation shields, shown in Fig. 5 (a), are rectangular, while dilution refrigera-tors traditionally have cylindrical vacuum chambers and shields. The rectangular shape facilitates access from the front and back side to components mounted at dif-ferent temperature stages without the need to remove the adapter modules, as is the case for the nodes. We use copper braids to establish thermal contact be-tween the heat exchange plates at the cold head of the pulse tube and the radiation shields to compensate the thermal contraction of the adjacent elements during the cooldown and decouple the link system from of the vibra-tions stemming from the pulse tube. For optimal heat transport, the cross-section of the radiation shields along which heat is conducted from the adapter modules to the cold head (including the radiation shield and braids in the cooling unit) is kept constant and similar to the cross-section of the radiation shields in the link. We fur-ther minimize the number of contact interfaces between the pulse tube and the flanges for the adapter modules and use OFE copper along the main thermal path, result-ing in a lower thermal resistance compared to the nodes [see Table III in Appendix G]. When initially cooling down the system starting from room temperature, the pulse tube actively cools the sys-tem at the 50K and 4K stages through the braids con-necting the stages. To also cool the still and base tem-perature stages (during the cooldown until condensation of the 3He /4He mixture), we connect the 4K to the lower temperature stages using mechanical heat switches. For our cooling unit, we designed and realized mechanical heat switches, see Fig. 5 (a,c), which connect one end of a vertical copper rod to the still or base stage (A), while the other end is thermalized at the 4K stage through braids (B). The contact force is generated by an air pres-sure cylinder mounted outside of the vacuum can and guided to the copper rod through a thermally insulat-ing fiber glass tube (C). To release the thermal con-tact of the lower temperature stages to the 4K stage of the pulse tube, for enabling cool down to base temper-ature, the copper rod is pulled up. Compared to ex-change-gas-based heat switches [34], often used in com-mercial dilution refrigerators, the mechanical solution has the advantage of not suffering from a residual heat flow between the stages during operation of the cryo-genic system at base temperature. However, mechani-cal heat switches are known to be less reliable than ex-change-gas-based ones and are therefore rarely used in commercial applications. While a cooldown of the 30-meter-long cryogenic link takes 6.5 days with the me-chanical heat switches activated, it increases by a factor of 2 when not using them because the still and base tem-perature radiation shields along the link are only cooled from the nodes. The 50K shield is mechanically supported from above by stainless steel rods (D,b). This standard and reliable approach is suited for the 50K stage as it is the heaviest and in addition is subject to unpredictable lateral forces from the thermal contraction of link elements during the cooldown. The 4K stage is mounted to the 50K plate of the cooling unit using 0.3-m-long Bluestone rods (E,b), which are flexible enough to tolerate the typically oc-curring lateral forces. We use washers made of Invar to compensate the differences in thermal contraction of Bluestone and stainless steel screws, see Fig. 5 (b). At the still and base stages the space constraints do not allow us to use long and flexible enough Bluestone rods. We mechanically support the still and base stages from below with four Bluestone posts, each mounted at a corner on the bottom of the radiation shields (F,d), allowing the shields to slide along the link axis for a lim-ited distance of (5 mm). The ability for the shields to slide laterally compensates forces caused by the thermal contraction of the still and base-temperature radiation shields. To avoid accidental thermal shorts, the lateral motion of the still and base stage is limited by the Blue-stone spacers mounted horizontally (d). 

> Appendix B: PRODUCTION AND ASSEMBLY TECHNIQUES

In this appendix we discuss three technical aspects of the manufacturing and assembly process of the cryogenic link. The first two, rigid and reliable screw connections under consideration of thermal contraction and checking for radiation leaks are more general while copper braid 10 ABCDEF

# (a) (b) (c) (d) 

ABC 

> FIG. 5. (a) Front view of the cooling unit installed at the center of the 30 m link, used to actively cool the 50K and 4K temperature stages. The flanges of the vacuum chamber and radiation shields on the front and back side are removed. Only on the still stage we show the radiation shield on the left half of the picture as a photo composition. The labelled arrows are discussed in the text. (b) Photograph of the support rods for the 50K and 4K stages. (c) Photograph of the still heat switch in the open state (the copper rod is disconnected from the still stage). (d) Photograph of the support posts and spacers of the still stage.

manufacturing is rather specific for the cryogenic link.  

> a. Achieving rigid screw connections

Most components in a cryogenic setup are mounted using screws. To ensure good thermalisation of compo-nents and rigidity of mechanical connections, we need to choose a proper torque of the screws for their installa-tion. In our cryogenic system, we also have to take into account the different thermal contractions of the screws and the materials they hold together. Otherwise, the screws may break or connections can loosen [73]. Table I (2nd column) lists the torques we use for a selection of brass screw sizes connecting copper parts. The values correspond to recommendations for screws with a prop-erty class of 4.6 [74]. It is particularly challenging to connect different seg-ments of the Aluminium waveguide with each other us-ing brass screws. Since Aluminium with a contrac-tion of 4 .15 mm/m [52] from room temperature to <

50 K has larger thermal contraction than brass with 3.75 mm/m [34], the resulting contact pressure is reduced when the waveguide is cooled down. For these connec-tions we have applied the torque for fastening the brass screws displayed in Table I (last column), corresponding to the property class of 5 .6. The applied torque results in a preload force at room temperature close to the yield strength of brass. This force is reduced by one quarter at cryogenic temperatures due to thermal contraction of the two materials [73]. Even larger mismatches of the thermal contrac-tion coefficients between two materials can be miti-gated by adding washers with a low thermal contrac-11              

> Thread Torque in Nm for size Cu Al M2.5 0.25 0.3 M3 0.40 0.5 M4 0.85 1.1 M5 1.65 2.1 M6 2.8 3.6 TABLE I. Our recommended torque to tighten metric brass screws for fastening copper (Cu) or aluminium (Al) parts.

tion coefficient, e.g. tungsten (0 .75 mm/m) or In-var (0 .5 mm/m) [34]. In the additional cooling unit [see Fig. 5(b) in Appendix A] we mount the Blue-stone rods (6 .5 mm/m) [75] using stainless steel screws (3 mm/m) [34] and Invar washers.  

> b. A method for checking radiation tightness

Proper shielding of the thermal radiation on every tem-perature stage is essential to not exceed the cooling power of the colder stages (see main text, Sec. III). Even with a carefully developed design of the radiation shields, there will always be narrow slits or uncovered holes where ra-diation can propagate through and warm up the next colder temperature stage. These leaks can be seen as a black-body surface, increasing the effective emissivity significantly, although their area is small. During the as-sembly we therefore covered these open holes with copper or aluminium tape to prevent radiation leaking through the stage. An efficient way to find leaks is to place a bright LED light on the inside of the temperature shield, darken the room, and observe where the light can be seen from the outside of the shield. As all the components and shields usually have a high reflectivity in visible wave-lengths, the light from the LED will be reflected multiple times inside the shield and even reaches indirectly illu-minated areas.  

> c. Manufacturing of copper braids

A braid module contains several braids at each tem-perature stage. The total cross-section of these braids is equal to the cross-section of the radiation shield of a link module. Each copper braid is an assembly con-sisting of 2 parts: the braided copper wires, and a ter-minal (end-fitting) on each end of the wires. We cre-ate a high thermal conductivity connection between the braided wires and the terminal using compression weld-ing. The terminals are then connected to the radiation shields using brass screws. For braids below the 50K stage we measured the con-ductivity of the braided copper wires before manufac-turing the braids with a similar method as described in Appendix F, to select copper with a thermal conductivity 

ρCU ≳ 1200 W/(Km) at 4 .2 K. During the manufactur-ing process, thermal conductivity of a copper braid can be lowered due to repeated bending of the braided cop-per wires, and the plastic deformation while compression welding the terminals. In a final production step, we an-neal the braids in a vacuum oven [34], aiming to restore or increase the thermal conductivity of the braids. 

> Appendix C: THERMAL MODEL

We developed a simplified thermal model in parallel to the development of the cryogenic link and prototype setups in an iterative approach, with the aim to both optimize the design of the cryogenic link, and to im-prove the understanding of the heat transfer processes in the system. In the following, we consider in some detail the steady-state heat transfer across different stages of our system, and discuss the two dominant heat-transfer mechanisms acting on the individual stages. We label the base, still, 4K, 50K and room tempera-ture stages (vacuum can) with n = 1 ... 5, and consider a general cryogenic link with length l. On each stage n, we assume that the heat load originates exclusively from the enclosing higher temperature stage n + 1, [see Fig. 6(a)]. The temperature of the outermost shield n = 5 (vacuum can), is considered to be constant at room temperature. We model each temperature stage as a one-dimensional object subjected to heat loads that vary only along the link axis. Because the radiative heat load is cylindri-cally symmetric, and the thermal conduction of the sup-port posts is several orders of magnitude smaller than that of copper, the heat introduced by the posts rapidly redistributes around the radiation shield. We therefore neglect any circumferential temperature variation of the shield induced by the posts.  

> a. Heat load

We first consider thermal radiation and local heat load induced by the conduction through the posts, and present the expressions used to evaluate those quantities at every position along the link. The radiated power of a body per unit area can be de-scribed with the Stefan–Boltzmann law as φrad = σεT 4

with the Stefan–Boltzmann constant σ and the temper-ature of the body T . The emissivity ε of the surface of the body describes the efficiency in emitting thermal ra-diation, being 1 for an ideal black body and ε ∈ (0 , 1) for real materials. We approximate the radiative heat load per unit area on the octagonal shield from stage n + 1 to stage n by considering two concentric cylindrical grey bodies with emissivity εn, ε n+1 ≪ 1 by 

φrad ,n ≃ σλT 4

> n+1

, (C1) 12 with the adapted attenuation factor λ ≃ ( 1 

> ϵn

+ 

> Fϵn+1

)−1 [37, 39]. This includes the view factor F =

Cn/C n+1 with the circumference Cn of the octagonal ra-diation shield at stage n, which we approximate with the average of the circumcircle and incircle [see Table III in Appendix G for specific values]. F describes the propor-tion of the total radiation emitted from the outer surface 

n + 1 that is absorbed by the enclosed shield n. We also neglect the radiation from stage n to n + 1 since 

T 4 

> n

≪ T 4

> n+1

.The second major contribution to the heat load is the conductive heat flow through the support posts. Other elements connecting different temperature stages, such as electronic wiring, only appear in the nodes and are de-signed to minimize thermal conduction and are therefore not considered in our thermal model. Heat transferred inside an object through thermal con-ductance can be described with the local heat flux density ⃗q, which is governed by Fourier’s law [37]. In its differ-ential form, ⃗q = −ρ(T )∇T, (C2) where ρ(T ) is the temperature-dependent thermal con-ductivity of the material of the object, and ∇T is the temperature gradient within the object. Each post in the link makes physical contact with two adjacent temperature stages, inducing heat flow from the hotter to the colder end of the post. We model the heat transferred through a post as a one-dimensional process, since the cross-section of a post is approximately con-stant, reducing Eq. (C2) to qx = −ρdT /dx . Next, we put dx to the left-hand side and multiply by the aver-age cross-sectional area Apost ,n . Integrating both sides results in the heat load per post on stage n as 

Ppost ,n = Apost ,n 

lpost ,n 

Z Tn+1 

> Tn

ρpost (T )dT (C3) 

≃ Apost ,n 

lpost ,n 

Z Tn+1 

> 0

ρpost (T )dT, (C4) 

lpost ,n denotes the length of the post. We approximate the lower temperature as zero in Eq. (C4), which is valid for common materials with thermal conductivity mono-tonically decreasing towards low temperatures and under 

Tn ≪ Tn+1 (see Appendix E and Ref [34]). Here, we ne-glect the radiation heat load on the post itself, assuming it to be small. The estimated values for the thermal model are summarized in Table III in Appendix G. For a given stage n, the heat loads in Eqs. (C1) and (C4) are determined by the geomet-rical design, material properties and the temperature profile Tn+1 (x) of stage n + 1. The heat exchange between the temperature stage n + 1 and n dominates over the exchange between n and n − 1, because the heat load in Eqs. (C1) and (C4) scales at least linearly in 

T , and the temperature stages in a dilution refrigerator follow Tn−1 ≪ Tn ≪ Tn+1 . This allows approximating the heat load at every position x of stage n in a cascaded manner without considering the colder stage n − 1.  

> b. Heat flow

Now we discuss how the heat flow along the link to-wards a cooling unit is related to the material and geom-etry of the radiation shields. Assuming the cooling units at each end of the system to provide equal cooling power makes the model symmet-ric around the middle of the link, allowing for a simplified study of only one half of the system. All the heat load of this half must therefore flow towards the correspond-ing cooling node as shown in Fig. 6(c). In combination, the heat load along the radiation shield at stage n and at position x < l/ 2 for steady state condition can be described as a sum of continuous-in-space radiative and discrete-in-space conductive components: 

Qn(x) := 

Z l/ 2

> x

φrad ,n (x′)Cndx ′ + X

> xi≥x

Ppost ,n,x i . (C5) The first term describes the radiative heat load φrad ,n in-tegrated from the position of interest x to l/ 2 times the circumference Cn of the shield, and the second term de-scribes the conductive heat load from support posts. We denote the position of the posts by xi, and only consider the posts located between x and l/ 2. The cross-section of radiation shields and braid mod-ules is designed to be constant along the link for each temperature stage, and the geometry is cylindrically sym-metric. Therefore, we again use the one-dimensional Fourier law. At a position x on stage n we relate the temperature gradient dT n(x)/dx along the link axis to the heat load of Eq. (C5) as follows: 

Anρn(Tn(x)) dT n(x)

dx = Qn(x), (C6) with the temperature-dependent thermal conductivity of the radiation shield ρn(T ), its cross-sectional area An,the radiation shield temperature Tn(x) at the position of interest. The parameters An and ρn are listed in Table III in Appendix G . In addition, we model the thermal interface between two bulk materials such as between a braid module and a radiation shield using a temperature-dependent contact resistance Rc(T ). Correspondingly, a heat flow crossing such an interface leads to a finite temperature jump [51] ∆T = Rcontact (T )Q. (C7) The contact resistance for braid modules is discussed in more details in Appendix D. 13 

c. Temperature profile 

The simplified model outlined above allows us to nu-merically calculate the temperature profile of every stage along the link. We begin with the vacuum can, which is in good approximation at room temperature along its full length. We calculate the temperature profile Tn(x) of any lower temperature stage n using the following steps. 1. Calculate Qn(x): By taking into account the dimensions and material properties of the radia-tion shields and support posts [see Table III in Ap-pendix G], we calculate the heat flow rate incident on stage n using Eq. (C5), given a known temper-ature profile Tn+1 at stage n + 1. In this approach, we model the link modules as a set of connected elements (as shown in Fig. 6(b)). The shield and connection modules are considered as distributed thermal resistances with discrete heat load stem-ming from the posts and distributed heat load due to the incident thermal radiation. The nodes and braid modules are considered as thermal resistances causing a finite temperature jump at their inter-faces. By integrating Eq. (C5), we calculate the heat flow along the link Qn(x). 2. Determine the node temperature Tn(0): At the cooling unit ( x = 0), the total heat flow equates to the temperature-dependent cooling power of the unit given by the relation Tn(0) = Pn[Qn(0)], with 

Pn denoting the cooling power curve of the node at stage n [see Table III in Appendix G]. 3. Calculate Tn(x): Let xi be the ordered finite set of M locations with discrete thermal resistance modules: 0 ≤ x1 ≤ ... < x M ≤ l/ 2. For a given thermal contact at location xi, we define Tn(xi−)and Tn(xi+) as the temperatures just before and after the thermal contact. We then iteratively cal-culate the temperature profiles. If x1 > 0, we in-tegrate Eq. (C6) from 0 to x1− to get Tn(x) on this section of the link and Tn(x1−). Then for 

i = 1 to M :(a) we solve Eq. (C7) to find 

T (xi+) using T (xi+) − T (xi−) =

Rmodule [T (xi+) + T (xi−)/2] Qn(xi). (b) and integrate Eq. (C6) from xi+ to x(i+1) −.These steps are repeated in a cascaded manner until we find the profile of the lowest temperature stage. An example profile of Qn as a function of distance x

from the node is shown in Fig. 6(c). Since all heat loads from the posts and radiation are positive, Qn(x) increases continuously from x = l/ 2 towards the node at x = 0 with steps at the positions where the support posts are installed on the radiation shields. The temperature gra-dient dT n/dx is approximately proportional to the heat flow. It reaches the maximum at the node. In the middle Node AM BM BM BM BM LM LM LM LM 

> 00heat flow, Q (arb) temperature,  T (arb) position along x axis (arb.) symmetry axis : distributed / discrete heat load : heat flow : cooling unit : distributed / discrete thermal resistance //

(a) (b) (c) stage n stage n+1 

FIG. 6. (a) Schematic representation of heat transfer from stage n + 1 to the next colder stage n. The abbreviations AM, BM and LM stand for adapter module, braid module and link module. The increasing width of the orange arrow depicts the increasing heat flow along the link. (b) Equivalent thermal circuit model of (a). (c) Representative curves of the heat flow (orange) and temperature (blue) profiles along the link. The total induced heat flow Qtot is the sum of all heat loads on the half section of stage n, Tc is the temperature at the cooling unit and Th is the maximum temperature. 

of the link l/ 2 the heat flow and therefore the tempera-ture gradient vanishes. Discrete temperature jumps oc-cur for modules modelled as discrete thermal resistance. 

Appendix D: THERMAL PROPERTIES OF LINK AND BRAID MODULES 

In this section, we discuss the characterization of the thermal conductivity of the radiation shields, the thermal resistance of braid modules and the effect of multi-layer insulation on the 50K stage. The results of this analysis serve as parameters for the thermal model (see Table III in Appendix G), which is used to simulate the tempera-ture profile of the cryogenic link cooldowns and to predict the achievable lengths of the cryogenic link discussed in the main text (Sec. IV). For the characterization of these properties we assembled a cryogenic prototype system consisting of a single node connected to an adapter mod-ule and a link module, as depicted in Fig. 7(a). At the end of the only link module of the system, we closed the radiation shields with radiation-tight caps. At each tem-perature stage we mounted temperature sensors at the positions indicated by the purple dots in Fig. 7(a) and a heater at the end of the link on the cap (red diamond). 14 cooling unit temp. sensor heater heat current 4321a                                             

> ΔTΔTΔT1a rad BM node 32 43
> φrad LM φR, ρ
> MLI 432a1050 100 150 200 250 3.5 4. 4.5 5. 5.5 heat, Q (mW )
> temperature, T  (K)4K stage : RRR 4K : 236 ±2still : 209 ±13 BT : 133 ±23 .01 .1 110 110 110 210 3temperature, T(K) th. cond.,  ρ ( WK - 1 m- 1)
> (f)
> (a) (b)
> (c) (e) (d) BT still 4K 50K .01 .1 110 100 10 -2110 210 4temperature, T (K) th. res., R  th  (K/W)
> ∝T- 2Rtotal Rcontact Rbulk BM 3 W 2 W 1 W 0 W 0123440 60 80 100 120 distance, x (m)
> temperature, T  50K  (K) 1a234distance, x (m) total

FIG. 7. (a) Scheme of the experimental setup used to characterize heat transfer in the link and braid modules. (b) 4K stage temperature distribution vs heat applied at the end of the link. (c) Temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity at the base temperature, still and 4K shields of the link module. The solid lines are fits of the data to the RRR model (see Appendix F). (d) Temperature dependence of the thermal resistances of the braid module (BM) and its contributions from finite bulk conductivity and contact resistances. The green line highlights the approximate T −2 dependence of interface resistances. (e) 50K steady-state temperature distribution in the presence (filled circles) or absence (empty circles) of multi-layer insulation, for the indicated applied heat power. The solid lines are results of finite elements simulation, with the heat flux as a free parameter. The distance x also takes the vertical path of the heat flow to the cooling unit into account. 

a. Thermal conductivity of the radiation shields 

First, we experimentally evaluate the thermal conduc-tivity of the radiation shields in a link module. For this purpose we measure the temperature profile of the cold prototype system at steady state when applying different powers Q with the heater at the end of the link module for each temperature stage separately [Fig. 7(a)]. We mea-sure the temperatures at four different location, across all temperature stages: Sensor 1 is placed on the tem-perature plates of the dilution refrigerator, sensor 2 at the end of the adapter module, and sensors 3 and 4 at each end of the radiation shield of the link module. Figure 7(b) shows the temperatures measured at the 4K stage versus the applied heating power. We observe that in the absence of additional heating, the temper-atures increase along the link due to the heat load of the support posts and thermal radiation in the system (see Appendix C). When increasing the applied heat Q,the temperature difference between neighbouring sensors increases due to the finite thermal conductivity of the radiation shields and braids. We use these measurement results to calculate the thermal conductivity of the radiation shields from the ex-tracted temperatures of sensors 3 and 4 vs applied power. For this purpose, as discussed in the thermal model (Ap-pendix C), we approximate the geometry of a radiation shield for the heat transfer between sensors 3 and 4 as a one-dimensional conductor. The differential form of the Fourier’s law then reads 

Qn + Qn, 0(x) = AnρLM  

> n

(Tn(x)) ∂T n

∂x , (D1) with n denoting the temperature stage, An the cross sec-tion area of the radiation shield, ρLM  

> n

its thermal con-ductivity, Tn(x) the temperature profile along the shield and Qn, 0(x) the sum of all heat loads at temperature stage n between position x and the end of the prototype link. The heat load from the heater is represented by 

Qn. Next, we integrate Eq. (D1) between sensor 3 and 4 using a first order approximation of ρLM  

> n

around the mean temperature ¯Tn, 34 := ( Tn, 3 + Tn, 4)/2. We find the following expression for the thermal conductivity of the shield 

ρLM  

> n

( ¯Tn, 34 ) ≃ ∆xn, 43 (Qn + ¯Qn, 34 )

An∆Tn, 43 

, (D2) where ¯Qn, 34 is the mean value of the heat load Qn, 0(x), ∆xn, 43 the distance and ∆ Tn, 43 := Tn, 4 − Tn, 3 the tem-perature difference between sensor 3 and 4. With Eq. (D2) and the temperatures measured for dif-ferent heating powers, we calculate the thermal conduc-tivity ρLM  

> n

of the radiation shield at stage n. The results 15 for the base, still and 4K radiation shields are displayed in Fig. 7(c). The points represent measurement data and the colored lines are fits of the residual resistivity ratio (RRR) model, by minimizing the quadratic error to the measured thermal conductivity. This model uses a single parameter to describe the thermal conductivity of copper (see Appendix F). The analysis for temperatures above 50 K is particularly challenging, as the thermal conduc-tivity ρ(T ) of the different RRR values in the model only differs by a few percent [see Fig. 11(d)]. For this reason we did not measure it. The limited temperature range for the heated radia-tion shields results in an increased RRR variability with a standard deviation of up to 20% of the mean, see leg-end in Fig. 7 (c). However, the RRR values are similar to the RRR values used for the thermal model (see Sec. G), which are based on measurements of test strips cut from the copper sheets prior to their use in manufacturing the radiation shields. The measurement method itself is dis-cussed in Appendix F. This indicates that the mechanical processing, such as laser cutting and bending used in the manufacturing process of the radiation shields, does not significantly affect the observed thermal conductivity of the copper [34].  

> b. Thermal resistance of the braid modules

Next, we aim to understand the fraction of the ther-mal resistance along the braid module stemming from the limited thermal conductivity of the braids themselves and from the contact resistance between the braids and radiation shields. For this purpose, we define the total thermal resistance 

RBM total of the braid module as the inverse of the thermal conductance. In combination with its cross-section area 

An and length ∆ xn, 32 accounting for the geometry of the braid module we can approximate the thermal resistance using similar considerations as in Eq. (D2): 

RBM total ,n ( ¯T ) ≃ ∆Tn, 32 

Qn + ¯Qn, 23 

, (D3) with measured temperature difference ∆ Tn, 32 , the ap-plied heat Qn and the mean heat current of the braid module ¯Qn, 23 . We assume that the latter is similar to the mean heat current of the link module ( ¯Qn, 23 ≈ ¯Qn, 34 )as there is no support post inside the braid module that would introduce extra conductive heat load and as the ra-diative heat load inside a braid module can be neglected because its surface area is less than 1 /10 of the surface area of the radiation shield. The measured total thermal resistance is represented in Fig. 7(d) with black rings. Due to the thermal conduc-tivity properties of copper and RBM total (T ) ∝ ρ(T )−1 the resistivity reaches its lowest point around 20 K. To differentiate between thermal resistance stemming from finite thermal conductivity of the braids and from contact resistance between the braids and the radia-tion shields, we write the total thermal resistance as a combination of a bulk part and a contact resistance, 

RBM total (T ) = RBM contact (T ) + RBM bulk (T ). We determine the bulk thermal resistance RBM bulk of the braids, which are used in the braid modules, in a dedi-cated measurement using a similar method as discussed in Appendix F for the copper test strips. The results are shown in Fig. 7(d) with brown diamonds. This al-lows to extract the contact resistance by combining both measurements, RBM contact = RBM total − RBM bulk , represented with green triangles in the figure. The measured resis-tances are proportional to T −2 below 10 K (green line in Fig. 7(d)). This indicates that at low temperatures, such as on the base and still stage, contact resistance domi-nates. On the 4K stage the contribution of contact and bulk resistance are approximately equal, and at the 50K stage we observe that the contact resistance is negligibly low. It is generally difficult to make theoretical predictions about the contact resistance between bulk materials, and the problem is not well-understood [34, 51]. However, at low temperatures the contact resistance typically follows the relation Rcontact ∝ T −b, b ∈ [0 .75 , 2.5] [51]. Oxide layers on the surfaces, which act as an additional bound-ary resistance, introduce an acoustic mismatch between the layers (Kapitza resistance) [51] and affect the ob-served temperature dependence b. General advices for lowering contact resistances at low temperatures ≤ 4 K are to use smooth electro-polished copper surfaces free of oxides and pressing them together with high force. A thin film of thermal conducting vacuum grease like Apiezon N applied to the interface can reduce the contact resistance further [76], because the grease fills the tiny crevices on the surface and increases the effective contact area to transfer heat.  

> c. Multi-layer insulation

In the last step we study the impact of multi-layer insulation installed on the 50K stage of the link. For this purpose, we cooled down the prototype system (see Fig. 7(a)) twice: once with the 50K stage directly ex-posed to the room-temperature radiation from the vac-uum can, and the second time with multi-layer insulation (MLI) covering the 50K radiation shields (indicated by a dashed line in Fig. 7(a)). The measured temperature profiles for the two consec-utive cool downs are shown in Fig. 7(e). Without the MLI (empty circles), the temperature gradient along the prototype link is larger than with MLI (filled circles) and reaches 100 K/120 K at the end of the shield module with-out/with heater switched on. With the MLI installed, the temperature is lower than without, everywhere and for all applied heating powers. For the analysis of the 50K stage we use a 3D model of the prototype system and a finite element simulation 16 software. We assume that the mean heat flux φeff on the 50K shield scales as φeff = λσ (T 4RT − T (x)4), where σ is the Stefan-Boltzmann constant, λ ∈ [0 , 1] the attenua-tion coefficient composed of the surface emissivities and a geometric factor (see Eq. (C1)). First, we analyze the system without multi-layer in-sulation installed. We simulate the steady-state tem-perature profile by sweeping λ, and find the mini-mum quadratic error between the measured and simu-lated temperatures for λ = 2%, see lines in Fig. 7(e). This value corresponds to a mean heat flux of φeff =8.5 W/m 2. The mean heat flux in the simulation is a combination of the thermal irradiation φrad from the vac-uum can and the heat load of a single post Ppost times the mean number of posts per unit area np separating the 50K shield from the vacuum can: φeff = φrad + np Ppost .From the characterization and simulation of the support posts we expect that each post on the 50K stage adds a heat load of Ppost ≈ 0.8 W (see Appendix E). In the prototype system the post density is np ≈ 2.6 m −2. Sub-tracting the heat load stemming from the support posts from φeff leads to an approximate radiation heat load of 

φrad ≈ 6.4 W/m 2.Second, we analyze the system with multi-layer insu-lation covering the 50K radiation shield of the link mod-ules. The MLI consists of two custom-designed sets with 15 layers each. On the node the only one set of MLI is installed due to space constraints between the vacuum can and the 50K shields. To distinguish the performance of the MLI on the link modules from the performance on the node, we additionally install a temperature sensor along the 50K shield of the dilution refrigerator, labelled 

a in Fig. 7(a). In the simulation we split the attenuation constant λ into two parts: λ1a represents the section of the radiation shield of the node, and λ′ the section of the radiation shields along the link. Again, we simulate the steady-state temperatures and find a minimum quadratic error between measurement and simulation data for λ′ = 0 .4%, corresponding to 

φeff = 1 .7 W/m 2. The heat load of a post, which is now partially covered with MLI, is estimated to be Ppost ≈

0.26 W (see Appendix E). For the radiation heat load we find φrad ≈ 1.0 W/m 2, which is comparable to other studies using similar MLI configurations [39, 77, 78]. The MLI significantly reduces the radiation heat load on the 50K stage and is therefore a critical element for the suc-cessful operation of the system at length scales of tens of meters. For the node section ( λ1a) the MLI did not substan-tially improve the reflectivity. We attribute this to the surface geometry of the radiation shield and tight space constraints between the radiation shield and vacuum can, which makes it difficult to properly attach the MLI and fully cover the whole surface. Open ends of the MLI can also behave as black body absorbers [39, 40]. We decided not to cover the nodes with MLI for the cryogenic link. 

> Appendix E: CRYOGENIC PROPERTIES OF BLUESTONE

In this section, we discuss mechanical and thermal properties of different material candidates. We consider Macor, polyether ether ketone (PEEK), glass- and car-bon-fiber-reinforced polyamid (GF/CF Nylon) and Blue-stone [46] for the mechanical support posts.  

> a. Yield strength

To analyze the suitability of Bluestone as a mate-rial of choice to mechanically support the shields in the link modules, we test the yield strength of our custom thin-walled posts at room temperature, see Fig. 8 (a), with a standard compression testing machine [79]. Apost is placed between a lower and an upper compression plates, schematically shown in Fig. 8(b). The distance l

between the plates is constantly measured while the ver-tical force F on the post is increased. The initial lengths of the posts l0, for the four different temperature stages, when no force is applied lie between 20 mm and 32 mm. For low forces, the compression ∆ l = l0 − l is propor-tional to F due to elastic deformation of the material, see straight segment of the lines in Fig. 8(c). Increasing the force further leads to a plastic deformation of the mate-(b) (c) 

# Fl             

> (a)
> 30mm
> 50K 4K still BT 012012345compression, Δl(mm )
> force, F  (kN  )
> 0.7 kN 1 kN 2.2 kN 3.8 kN
> FIG. 8. (a) Cross-sectional CAD drawings of the 50K (left) to base-temperature (right) Bluestone posts. (b) Schematic representation of the compression test machine used to char-acterize the compressive yield force of the posts. (c) Con-trolled force applied on the post vs measured post compres-sion for several copies of each type of post. The dashed line indicate the mean elastic limit after which permanent defor-mation of 0 .2% of the length loccurs.

17 rial (flattening of the lines) and later mechanical rupture (end point of the lines). We characterize the effective compressive strength of the material with the offset yield strength Rp0 .2 [80], de-fined as the amount of stress that leads to a plastic de-formation of 0 .2%. The five tests on the 50K posts yield an Rp0 .2 variation of 5%. This small variation between measured yield strengths shows that the production of posts based on a 3D printing process is reliable. Due to our choice of measuring the five different post geometries, and not a typical geometry for compression testing (e.g. a cylinder or cuboid), we obtain a larger variation Rp0 .2

in a range from 100 to 130 MPa. We also performed the same tests for posts made from Macor, PEEK and CF/GF Nylon, see Table II. For Stain-less steel we reference values from the literature [81].  

> b. Thermal conductivity

Mechanical support posts contribute to the conduc-tive heat load exerted on the temperature stages (see Appendix C). We are not aware of data on the ther-mal conductivity of Bluestone at cryogenic temperatures suitable for us, so we have characterized the Bluestone posts under these conditions. For these measurements, we clamp the base of a post to the base temperature plate of a dilution refrigerator. A heater and a resis-tive ruthenium oxide temperature sensor (RX-102B from LakeShore Cryotronics, Inc.) are attached to a copper block with screws, and this block is glued to the top head of the post as shown in Fig. 9(a) for a Macor post. We use the temperature sensor to monitor the temperature 

Ttop . The sensor is electrically connected using a su-perconducting NbTi core enclosed in a low-conductivity CuNi matrix, ensuring that the heat flow through the wire is negligible compared to the heat flow through the post. A second temperature sensor is mounted on the base plate to measure the temperature of the base of the post Tbase (not visible on the photograph). The temperature difference between the two sensors ∆T = Ttop − Tbase , measured while applying heating powers Q ranging from 0 .1 μW to 10 μW for posts with the same geometries but made of different materials, is shown in Fig. 9(b). During measurements, Tbase varied only from 10 mK to 20 mK, while Ttop peaked at 10 K. Compared to the other tested materials, Bluestone shows the steepest temperature drop ( ∝ ∆T 3.3) below 5 K. For ∆T < 1.5 K the heat current flowing through the Blue-stone post appears to be only half as large as for any other material tested, while above ∆ T > 4 K, Nylon and PEEK are better thermal insulators. We fit the data by minimizing the quadratic error to the measured data us-ing a power law model Q = a∆T b. For Bluestone we find a dependence scaling as ∝ ∆T 3.3 with the temperature difference [see Fig. 9(b)]. To calculate the thermal conductivity for each mate-rial, we use the heat load calculation of the posts from Macor Nylon GF Nylo CF PEEK BlueStone 0.3 1 3 10 30 300 10 - 410 - 310 - 210 - 1110 temp., T (K)            

> th. cond.,  ρ ( WK - 1 m- 1)
> ∝T2.3 SS 304 (a) BlueStone PEEK Nylon CF Nylon GF Macor .5 125.1 110 temp. drop, ΔT(K)
> heat, Q  (μ W)
> ∝T3.3 (c) (b)
> temperature sensor post
> FIG. 9. (a) Photograph of a typical experimental setup used to characterize the conductive heat properties of base temper-ature posts made of Bluestone, polyether ether ketone, Nylon and Macor. The post is thermalized to the base temperature plate of a dilution refrigerator. (b) Applied heat vs measured temperature drop across the posts from (a). The solid lines are power law fits (see main text). (c) Thermal conductivity extracted from (b). The solid line for Bluestone is obtained as a piecewise function which fits the data at different tem-perature scales. The dashed lines are values taken from liter-ature [81, 82].

the thermal model (see Eq. (C4)), and approximate 

Tbase = 0 K since Tbase ≪ Ttop . We get the relation ∆T = Ttop and rewrite Eq. (C4) as 

Q lpost 

Apost 

=

Z Ttop 

> 0

ρpost (T )dT, (E1) with the length lpost and the average cross-section Apost 

of the post. As an ansatz we write the heat current as Q(T ) = aT b and differentiate Eq. (E1) with re-spect to T, which gives us the thermal conductivity as 

ρpost (T ) = abT b−1lpost /A post . Below 4 K we estimate from the experiment that the thermal conductivity of Bluestone scales with T 2.3 [see Fig. 9(c)]. For the thermal conductivity between 50 K and 300 K, we repeated the same measurements by mounting a 50K post on the 50K stage inside the corresponding radiation shield. In this configuration we estimate that thermal ra-diation Qrad between the post to the 50K stage dominates over thermal conductivity Qcond through the Bluestone post, with Qrad /Q cond ≈ 5 for measurements in which the temperature of Ttop is close to room temperature. We 18 therefore performed a 3D grey-body finite-element simu-lation of the experiment to obtain ρpost . Instead of using Eq. (E1), we model the heat transfer with Q = Qcond +

Qrad = Apost /l post c(T )( Ttop − Tbase ) + λ(T 4top − T 4base ) to take both heat transfer mechanisms into account. We fit-ted this model to our measured data assuming c(T ) to be constant value c and use λ, c as fit parameters. An accu-rate determination of the Temperature dependent ther-mal conductivity c(T ) in this temperature range would require a dedicated measurement setup optimized for a more precise characterization of λ.Between 4 K and 50 K, the temperature range in which we have not characterized the material, we assume a sim-ilar behaviour for the thermal conductivity of Bluestone as extracted from the measurements at lower tempera-tures. We interpolate the thermal conductivity with a polynomial of the form ρpost (T ) = a + bT c to obtain a piece-wise connected function from base to room temper-ature [Fig. 9(c)]. We further characterize other support post materials with the same method [dots in Fig. 9(c)] and compare the values to the thermal conductivity values cited in the literature (dashed lines), observing that the deviation be-tween literature values and measured thermal conductiv-ity of PEEK, Nylon and Macor for temperatures up to 4 K is less than 60%. The good agreement shows that the approximation of the posts as a 1D object and the anal-ysis serve as a reliable method for measuring the thermal conductivity of Bluestone. Therefore, it is not necessary to measure every post type (50K to base) individually. In Table II we list thermal and mechanical properties of Bluestone and selected materials typically used for sup-port structures in cryogenic systems. As mentioned in the main text, we chose to use Bluestone for the sup-port posts for several reasons. First, Bluestone has the highest ratio of σ/ρ below 3 K, we use this ratio as a guide for the choice of material. It shows how small the heat current from the hotter to the colder temperature stage can be under the constraint to withstand mechani-cal stress. Second, it is 3D printable and enables creating geometries which are difficult to manufacture with CNC machines. Third, the material is less brittle than Macor, which means it is more robust against shocks and makes the transportation, assembly and handling of shield mod-ules easier.                        

> Material SS MPEEK Nylon BS Yield strength, σMPa 550 350 120 120 120 Thermal cond., ρ(1K) mW/(Km) 70 5531Ratio, σ/ρ (1K) GNK/Wm 870 20 40 120 TABLE II. Properties of candidate materials for the fabrica-tion of support posts. SS: stainless steel; M: Macor; PEEK: polyether ether ketone; N: glass- and carbon-fiber-reinforced polyamid (GF/CF Nylon); BS: Bluestone.
> c. Simulations of post heat load

The thermal model of the cryogenic link estimates the heat load of each post as a function of temperature of the enclosing stage [see Table III in Appendix G]. For this purpose, we simulate the heat current Ppost ,n flow-ing through the Bluestone support posts on temperature stage n using a finite element method. As boundary con-ditions we fix the base of the post to the temperature of stage n. The top of the post is fixed to the tempera-ture of the stage n + 1 and its surface is also exposed to thermal radiation from stage n + 1. For the simulations we make use of the thermal conductivity of Bluestone 

ρp(T ) discussed above. In the simulation we sweep the temperature of stage n + 1 within the typical range of temperatures observed for the cryogenic link. For the 50K post we set Tn+1 to common laboratory room temperatures between 293 K and 295 K and simu-late the heat load for one post against room temperature [see markers in Fig. 10(a)]. If the post is a black body ε =1                      

> ε=0 MLI 293 294 295 .0 .3 .6 .9 T(K) RT 50K heat load,  50K  (W) Pno MLI 80 100 120 020 40 60 T(K) 50K 4 K heat load, P  4K  (mW)
> ∝T1.7 4812 16 .0 .2 .4 .6 .8 T4K (K) still heat load,  still  (mW)
> ∝T2.2 P1. 1.5 2. 0.5 11.5 T(K) still BT heat load,  BT  ( μ  W )
> ∝T3.3 P(d) (a) (b) (c)
> FIG. 10. (a) Simulated heat load of a post on the 50K stage
> vs temperature of the vacuum can, based on finite elements method. Simulations for (b) 4K, (c) still and (d) base stage, see panel in (a) for the legend. The solid lines are fits to a power law dependence between the heat load and temperature on the top of the post.

19 absorber ( ε = 1) and fully exposed to thermal radiation, the heat load is close to 0 .8 W per post. However, in the cryogenic link we cover the base of the post, which is half of its surface area, with high reflective MLI. After taking this into account in our simulation, the heat load decreases to 0 .26 W. A fully reflective post would lower the heat load to 0 .1 W. On the 4K stage, the absorption of black body radia-tion by the post has a much smaller effect and is on the order of ≈ 20% of its total heat load if the 50K stage has a temperature of 120 K [see Fig. 10(b)]. For the ther-mal model of the link we approximate the heat load of the post by a power law P ∝ T 1.750K . At still and base, the radiative component can be neglected as discussed in the main text, and therefore the heat load does not depend on the emissivity of the post material. Again, both curves can be well approximated by a power law [see Fig. 10(c),(d)]. 

> Appendix F: THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY MEASUREMENT OF PURE COPPER TYPES

For optimizing the heat flow along the cryogenic link (see Sec. II in the main text) it is critical to assert that highly conductive copper is used for the radiation shields. We have built a dipstick device with an evacuated sam-ple space which can be immersed into liquid helium, see Figure 11(a,b). It allows one to assess the thermal prop-erties of copper test strips down to 4.2 K. We attach one end of the test strip, with a size of 12 mm × 150 mm and a thickness of 1 , 2 or 3 mm, to the cold head of the dip-stick. We place a heater at the other end of the test strip to induce an adjustable heat load. The head of the dip-stick is enclosed in a vacuum can and pumped to a pres-sure of ∼ 10 −4 mbar to suppress heat exchange through gas. We placed resistive temperature sensors based on ceramic oxynitride (CX1010 from LakeShore Cryotron-ics, Inc.) at the location labeled 1, 2, 3 on the copper test strip with equal relative distance. At each location, we have a pair of two sensors for redundancy. To measure the thermal conductivity, we continuously monitor the temperatures while the dipstick is immersed in liquid helium. Once all the sensors show the same tem-peratures, thermal equilibrium is reached and we start applying the heat Q to the high temperature end of the sample. For each Q, when the temperatures are at steady state, we average the temperature of every sensor pair. Then we increase Q to the next higher value. We observe an overall increase in measured tempera-ture with increasing input power Q. The explored tem-perature range spans from 4 .2 K to ∼ 60 K for input pow-ers of up to 3 W, see Fig. 11(c). Sensor pair 3 shows the highest temperatures as it is the closest to the heater. At larger values of Q, the temperature difference between the sensor pairs increase because of the finite thermal re-sistance of the copper strip. The radiated power of cop-per with the emissivity ϵCu ≃ 0.03 [37] is on the order of OFE OF batch 1 OF batch 2 ETP annealed not annealed 5 10 50 100 50 100 500 1000 5000 mean temperaure, T (K)               

> thermal cond., ρ (WK -1  m -1  )780 temperature sensor pair 1 2 3vacuum can heat flow heater 0123020 40 60 heat, Q (W)
> temperature, T (K) (a) (c) (d) (b) T3T2T1
> 130 220 310
> FIG. 11. (a) Perspective view, and (b), cross-section of a CAD representation of the dipstick test setup used to char-acterize the thermal conductivity of copper strips. (c) Mean temperature of each temperature sensor pair at steady state
> vs applied power Qon the heater for a non-annealed OF batch 1 copper test sample. (d) Thermal conductivity vs temper-ature for different copper types before and after annealing. The black lines are theoretical curves of the thermal conduc-tivity of copper for various RRR values.

10 mW/m 2 for the highest temperature. The test strip has an area of ≈ 0.004m 2 and therefore the radiation of 

≈ 40 μw is negligible compared to the applied heat load of ≥ 100 mW. As in the thermal model for the heat load calculations of the support posts (see Appendix C), we model the cop-per strip as a one dimensional bar. To extract the ther-mal conductivity ρ(T ) for a given applied heating power 

Q, we integrate Fourier’s law considering two neighboring sensor pairs i and jQ = Ali,j 

Z Tj

> Ti

ρ(T )dT, (F1) with the cross section area of the copper strip A, the dis-tance between the temperature sensor pairs li,j and the average temperature of a sensor pair Ti. Expanding ρ

in Eq. (F1) to the first order around the mean tempera-ture ¯T := ( Ti + Tj )/2 allows for an approximation of the thermal conductivity of the test strip 

ρ( ¯T ) ≃ li,j QA∆Ti,j 

, (F2) 20 using ∆ Ti,j := Tj − Ti.We measured more than 60 test strips of the three dif-ferent copper types and the three different thicknesses of the radiation shields. The average measured thermal con-ductivity sorted by copper type is shown in Figure 11(d). The OFE copper reliably shows the highest thermal con-ductivity. For OF copper we see a large variations in the thermal conductivity on the material of nominally identical quality delivered to us but purchased at differ-ent times. From the chemical composition measurements of the two OF copper batches, we hypothesize that phos-phorus impurities with a mass fraction of ≈ 20 ppm leads to the low thermal conductivity of batch 2 [50]. For the other two copper types, the variation in RRR between test strips was smaller ( ≤ 10%). In the industry stan-dards for the presented copper types not all impurities are captured, so it may be advantageous to purchase and test the raw materials before further processing for use in an experimental apparatus. A method to additionally in-crease the thermal conductivity of copper is to anneal the material in a vacuum oven after the machining is com-pleted. We subsequently remeasured the thermal conduc-tivity and observed an increase for all test strips, except for the first OF batch [see open markers in Fig. 11(d)]. The leading contribution to the thermal conductiv-ity for copper originates from free electrons. At low temperatures, they predominantly scatter on impurities, whose concentration does not depend on temperature. At higher temperatures, the electron–phonon scattering becomes dominant due to the increasing number of ther-mal phonons. As a result, the thermal conductivity reaches a maximum around 20 K [83]. A reliable empiri-cal model to describe the thermal conductivity of copper from millikelvin to room temperature is parametrized by the residual resistivity ratio (RRR) from NIST [84] (page 7-16). The quantity RRR is defined as the ratio of the electrical resistivity at 273 K to the resistivity 4 K and serves as a measure for the purity of the material. We estimate the RRR value of a copper test strip by minimiz-ing the quadratic error between the RRR model ρRRR ( ¯T )from [84] and the measured thermal conductivity ρ( ¯T )[see black lines in Fig. 11(d)]. We observe that the OFE copper strips consistently show the highest RRR values of all selected materials. For this reason OFE copper is our material of choice for the radiation shields and thermal braids. 

> Appendix G: THERMAL PARAMETERS OF THE LINK

We characterized the thermal properties relevant for the heat transfer in the thermal model (Appendix C) of the link in a set of independent measurements. The key parameters are summarized in Table III. We measured the cooling power P0 of the nodes using the same meth-ods as in [85]. The measurements consist of applying an electrically created heat load to a given temperature stage and recording the temperature increases at steady state. The applied heat load corresponds to the cool-ing power on that stage. The data is then fitted with a power law. The geometric dimensions in the table are obtained from the CAD model. Parameters such as heat load of posts and thermal conductivity of copper for the radiation shields are described in Appendices E, F. The methods to measure thermal resistance of braid modules and radiation heat flux are described in Appendix D. For the node and cooling unit resistance Rn, R CU we used a similar method as for the braid module. The effective heat load includes the radiation heat flux, the heat load from the posts, the post density and the radiation shield geometry. 

> Appendix H: THERMOMETRY

In the following, we discuss technical aspects related to the measurement of the temperatures in the cryogenic system, shown in Fig. 4 in the main text. The place-ment of the temperature sensors and the routing of the wiring needed to operate the sensors in the 30 meter long cryogenic link is shown in Fig. 12(a). We determine the temperatures using four-terminal measurements of three types of resistive temperature sensors based on ceramic oxynitride (CX-1010 and CX-1080) or ruthenium dioxide (RX-102B), each type is suited for a specific temperature range [86]. The measured resistance is converted to a temperature using an individual calibration lookup table for each sensor. The sensor temperatures are automatically acquired using resistance bridges with a 16-channel scanner in-stalled at each of the three cryostats. To connect to each sensor for a four-terminal sensing, we use a wiring har-ness routed from the vacuum chamber to the different temperature stages inside the cryostat [Fig. 12(a)]. The sensor cables in the link are routed from the tem-perature sensor to the corresponding cable harness along and on top of the radiation shields. For ease of instal-lation and service, each cable is divided into segments, roughly corresponding to the lengths of the radiation shields of the individual link elements. This approach allows us to test the cables installed on the individual modules before assembling the full system, and to more easily replace broken cable segments. The temperature sensor cable connectors are fixed to the radiation shields of the braid modules using copper adhesive tape [see Fig. 12(c)]. The cables are a few centimeters longer than the link module to compensate for the thermal contrac-tion between the elements during a cooldown. The sen-sors themselves are screwed to the radiation shields. 21 

Temperature stage 50K 4K still Base temperature Reference temperature T0 50 K 4 K 1 K 10 mK Cooling power P0 36( ˜T − 0.75) 0.7 W 2.5( ˜T − 0.75) 1.2 W 80( ˜T − 0.5) 2 mW 4 ˜T 2 μWPost heat load Ppost 0.26 W 10 ˜T 1.7 

> h

mW 34 ˜T 2.2 

> h

μW 10 ˜T 3.3 

> h

nW Radiation heat flux φrad ≤ 1.1 W/m 2 4 ˜T 4 

> h

mW/m 2 0 0Effective heat load φeff 2.2 W/m 2 (30 ˜T 1.7 

> h

+ 4 ˜T 4 

> h

) mW/m 2 150 ˜T 2.2 

> h

μW/m 2 1 ˜T 3.3 

> h

μW/m 2

Effective heat load ψeff 1.4 W/m (13 ˜T 1.7 

> h

+ 2 ˜T 4 

> h

) mW/m 50 ˜T 2.2 

> h

μW/m 0.2 ˜T 3.3 

> h

μW/m Radiation shield cross-section A 2000 mm 2 1000 mm 2 370 mm 2 200 mm 2

Radiation shield length l 2250 mm 2300 mm 2350 mm 2450 mm Radiation shield circumference Cn 265(VC)/205 mm 155 mm 110 mm 55 mm RRR of the radiation shield ρRRR 210 230 200 150 Thermal resistance node Rn 0.5/˜ρ75 (T ) K/W 2.4 ˜T −2 K/W 60 ˜T −2 K/W 5 ˜T −2 K/mW Thermal resistance cooling unit RCU 0.2/˜ρ75 (T ) K/W 0.5 ˜T −1 K/W 2 ˜T −1 K/W 1 ˜T −1 K/mW Thermal resistance braid module RBM 0.15 /˜ρ320 (T ) K/W 0.5 ˜T −2.6 K/W 10 ˜T −1.7 K/W 40 ˜T −2 K/mW TABLE III. Summary of extracted thermal parameters. Here, T is the temperature of stage n, and Th is the temperature of stage n + 1. Each quantity ˜X is expressed with its unit-less, renormalized quantity ˜X := X(T )/X (T0) and RRR stands for residual resistivity ratio. 

Appendix I: COOLDOWN DYNAMICS 

Cooling the entire 30-meter-long cryogenic link system from room temperature to 15 mK at the base temper-ature stage of the nodes takes around 6.5 days. The 50K 4K Still BT Cable harness Sensor cable Cable connector CX-1080 sensor CX-1010 sensor RX-102B sensor 

> (a) (b)

FIG. 12. (a) Schematic illustrating the location of tempera-ture sensors and the routing of the sensor wiring in the 30 m cryogenic link. (b) Photograph of a braid module at the base temperature stage with sensor wiring attached to it. 

cooldown process of the cryogenic link can be divided into two phases, similar to the ones in a cooldown of standard dilution refrigerator. In the first phase, after evacuating the vacuum con-tainer to a pressure below 10 −4 mbar, the system is cooled using pulse tube coolers at nodes A, B and C. We monitor the cooldown dynamics of the 50K and 4K stages with temperature sensors at the cooling nodes and the link modules, which are the farthest away from the heat sink of the pulse tubes (LM3, LM8). The loca-tions of the sensors are indicated in Figure 13(a). Due to the finite thermal conductivity of the radiation shields, we observe that the temperatures at the heat sinks (A-C) decrease significantly faster than the ones in the link modules, see Figure 13(b). About 4 days after starting the pulse-tube coolers, the temperature difference between the heat sinks A–C and the link modules LM3, LM8 decreases progressively faster, dropping from roughly 100 K to almost zero. This behaviour can be understood from the thermal diffusiv-ity κ of copper, defined as the ratio of thermal conductiv-ity and specific heat, which reflects how fast it responds to a temperature change. Between 100 K and 10 K the thermal diffusivity increases by several orders of magni-tude [87]. This increase of κ causes even small temper-ature gradients to be equalized quickly and leads to the observed rapid reduction of the temperature differences along the 4K stage. The still and base temperature stages are thermally coupled to the 4K stage via heat switches during the first phase of the cooldown. They reach a quasi-steady tem-perature around 6 K after 5.5 days of cooling, as shown in Fig. 13 (c) for the base stage. This stabilization marks the transition to the sec-ond phase of the cooldown, in which the helium heat switches at nodes A and B are deactivated and the me-chanical heat switches at node C are disconnected. The helium-flow precooling process is then initiated for fur-22 A       

> B
> C
> LM3
> LM8
> 50K
> 4K
> 0
> 50
> 100
> 150
> 200
> 250
> 300
> Temperaure, T  (K)
> Condesation ABCLM3 LM8 Base 0510 15 0.01 0.10 110 100 Time, t (d)
> Temperaure, T  (K)(a) (b) (c)
> ACBLM3 LM8
> Start He-flow precooling Start condensation

FIG. 13. (a) A schematic of the 30-meter-long link with coloured dots indicate the positions of the temperature sen-sors discussed in the following panels. (b) Measured tempera-tures of the 50K (solid lines) and 4K (dashed lines) stages as a function of time from the beginning of a cooldown. The labels and colours correspond to the sensor positions in panel (a). (c) Base-stage temperatures during the cooldown measured at the same positions as in (b) The vertical grey lines indicate different phases during the cooldown and are discussed in the text. 

ther cooldown. In this period, a few tens of millibar of the 3He /4He mixture are circulated through the dilution unit of each of the two nodes. Through evaporative cool-ing, the still and base temperature stages cool to ∼ 1 K within one to two hours. After that, we start the con-densation, where 3He /4He mixture is gradually added to the dilution unit and condenses in the mixing chamber at the base stage. After 4 hours, the mixture is fully condensed and the base temperature stage in the nodes reaches ∼ 20 mK. Over another 12 hours the temperature lowers to a stable level of 10 to 15 mK. At this point, the quantum devices in the system can be operated. In the days after the condensation, the 50K stage of the link modules still continues to cool down further, see Fig. 13 (b). This subsequent and slow change is a result of the low diffusivity κ. Due to the cascaded thermal coupling to the lower temperature stages, this also affects the 4K and still stages to a small extent. After about 14 days, the whole system reaches steady state. 

[1] H. J. Kimble, Nature 453 , 1023 (2008). [2] S. Wehner, D. Elkouss, and R. Hanson, Science 362 ,eaam9288 (2018). [3] D. P. DiVincenzo, Fortschritte der Physik 48 , 771 (2000). [4] P. Krantz, M. Kjaergaard, F. Yan, T. P. Orlando, S. Gus-tavsson, and W. D. Oliver, Applied Physics Reviews 6,021318 (2019). [5] A. Kumar, A. Suleymanzade, M. Stone, L. Taneja, A. Anferov, D. I. Schuster, and J. Simon, Nature 615 ,614 (2023). [6] B. M. Brubaker, J. M. Kindem, M. D. Urmey, S. Mittal, R. D. Delaney, P. S. Burns, M. R. Vissers, K. W. Lehnert, and C. A. Regal, Phys. Rev. X 12 , 021062 (2022). [7] R. Stockill, M. Forsch, F. Hijazi, G. Beaudoin, K. Pantzas, I. Sagnes, R. Braive, and S. Gr¨ oblacher, Nature Communications 13 , 6583 (2022). [8] M. Forsch, R. Stockill, A. Wallucks, I. Marinkovi´ c, C. G¨ artner, R. A. Norte, F. van Otten, A. Fiore, K. Srini-vasan, and S. Gr¨ oblacher, Nature Physics (2019). [9] W. Hease, A. Rueda, R. Sahu, M. Wulf, G. Arnold, H. G. Schwefel, and J. M. Fink, PRX Quantum 1, 020315 (2020). [10] M. Mirhosseini, A. Sipahigil, M. Kalaee, and O. Painter, Nature 588 , 599 (2020). [11] H.-T. Tu, K.-Y. Liao, Z.-X. Zhang, X.-H. Liu, S.-Y. Zheng, S.-Z. Yang, X.-D. Zhang, H. Yan, and S.-L. Zhu, Nat. Photonics , 1 (2022). [12] C.-H. Wang, F. Li, and L. Jiang, Nature Communica-tions 13 , 6698 (2022). [13] A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R.-S. Huang, J. Majer, S. Kumar, S. M. Girvin, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Nature 431 , 162 (2004). [14] J. Wenner, Y. Yin, Y. Chen, R. Barends, B. Chiaro, E. Jeffrey, J. Kelly, A. Megrant, J. Mutus, C. Neill, P. O ´Malley, P. Roushan, D. Sank, A. Vainsencher, T. White, A. N. Korotkov, A. Cleland, and J. M. Mar-tinis, Phys. Rev. Lett. 112 , 210501 (2014). [15] M. Pechal, L. Huthmacher, C. Eichler, S. Zeytino˘ glu, A. A. Abdumalikov Jr., S. Berger, A. Wallraff, and S. Filipp, Phys. Rev. X 4, 041010 (2014). [16] W. Pfaff, C. J. Axline, L. D. Burkhart, U. Vool, P. Rein-hold, L. Frunzio, L. Jiang, M. H. Devoret, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Nat. Phys. (2017), 10.1038/nphys4143. [17] J. Ilves, S. Kono, Y. Sunada, S. Yamazaki, M. Kim, K. Koshino, and Y. Nakamura, npj Quantum Informa-tion 6, 34 (2020). [18] J.-C. Besse, K. Reuer, M. C. Collodo, A. Wulff, L. Wernli, A. Copetudo, D. Malz, P. Magnard, A. Akin, M. Gabu-reac, G. J. Norris, J. I. Cirac, A. Wallraff, and C. Eichler, Nat. Commun. 11 , 4877 (2020). [19] P. Kurpiers, M. Pechal, B. Royer, P. Magnard, T. Walter, J. Heinsoo, Y. Salath´ e, A. Akin, S. Storz, J.-C. Besse, S. Gasparinetti, A. Blais, and A. Wallraff, Phys. Rev. Appl. 12 , 044067 (2019). [20] C. Axline, L. Burkhart, W. Pfaff, M. Zhang, K. Chou, 23 

P. Campagne-Ibarcq, P. Reinhold, L. Frunzio, S. M. Girvin, L. Jiang, M. H. Devoret, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Nature Physics 14 , 705 (2018). [21] Y. Zhong, H.-S. Chang, A. Bienfait, E. Dumur, M.-H. Chou, C. R. Conner, J. Grebel, R. G. Povey, H. Yan, D. I. Schuster, and A. N. Cleland, Nature 590 , 571 (2021). [22] N. Leung, Y. Lu, S. Chakram, R. K. Naik, N. Earnest, R. Ma, K. Jacobs, A. N. Cleland, and D. I. Schuster, npj Quantum Information 5, 18 (2019). [23] Y. P. Zhong, H.-S. Chang, K. J. Satzinger, M.-H. Chou, A. Bienfait, C. R. Conner, E. Dumur, J. Grebel, G. A. Peairs, R. G. Povey, D. I. Schuster, and A. N. Cleland, Nature Physics (2019). [24] L. D. Burkhart, J. D. Teoh, Y. Zhang, C. J. Ax-line, L. Frunzio, M. Devoret, L. Jiang, S. Girvin, and R. Schoelkopf, PRX Quantum 2, 030321 (2021). [25] P. Kurpiers, T. Walter, P. Magnard, Y. Salathe, and A. Wallraff, EPJ Quantum Technology 4, 8 (2017). [26] Z.-L. Xiang, M. Zhang, L. Jiang, and P. Rabl, Physical Review X 7, 011035 (2017). [27] M. J. A. Schuetz, B. Vermersch, G. Kirchmair, L. M. K. Vandersypen, J. I. Cirac, M. D. Lukin, and P. Zoller, Phys. Rev. B 99 , 241302 (2019). [28] P. Magnard, S. Storz, P. Kurpiers, J. Sch¨ ar, F. Marxer, J. L¨ utolf, T. Walter, J.-C. Besse, M. Gabureac, K. Reuer, A. Akin, B. Royer, A. Blais, and A. Wallraff, Phys. Rev. Lett. 125 , 260502 (2020). [29] S. Storz, J. Sch¨ ar, A. Kulikov, P. Magnard, P. Kurpiers, J. L¨ utolf, T. Walter, A. Copetudo, K. Reuer, A. Akin, J.-C. Besse, M. Gabureac, G. J. Norris, A. Rosario, F. Mar-tin, J. Martinez, W. Amaya, M. W. Mitchell, C. Abel-lan, J.-D. Bancal, N. Sangouard, B. Royer, A. Blais, and A. Wallraff, Nature 617 , 265 (2023). [30] S. Storz, A. Kulikov, J. D. Sch¨ ar, V. Barizien, X. Val-carce, F. Berterotti` ere, N. Sangouard, J.-D. Bancal, and A. Wallraff, Phys. Rev. Lett. 135 , 030801 (2025). [31] A. Kulikov, S. Storz, J. D. Sch¨ ar, M. Sandfuchs, R. Wolf, F. Berterotti` ere, C. Hellings, R. Renner, and A. Wallraff, arXiv:2412.17931 (2024). [32] C. Alduino, F. Alessandria, M. Balata, D. Biare, M. Bi-assoni, C. Bucci, A. Caminata, L. Canonica, L. Cap-pelli, G. Ceruti, A. Chiarini, N. Chott, M. Clemenza, S. Copello, A. Corsi, O. Cremonesi, A. D’Addabbo, S. Dell’Oro, L. Di Paolo, M. Di Vacri, A. Drobizhev, M. Faverzani, E. Ferri, M. Franceschi, R. Gaigher, L. Gladstone, P. Gorla, M. Guetti, L. Ioannucci, Y. Kolomensky, C. Ligi, L. Marini, T. Napolitano, S. Nisi, A. Nucciotti, I. Nutini, T. O’Donnell, D. Or-landi, J. Ouellet, C. Pagliarone, L. Pattavina, A. Pelosi, M. Perego, E. Previtali, B. Romualdi, A. Rotilio, C. Rus-coni, D. Santone, V. Singh, M. Sisti, L. Taffarello, E. Tatananni, F. Terranova, S. Wagaarachchi, J. Wallig, and C. Zarra, Cryogenics 102 , 9 (2019). [33] M. I. Hollister, D. A. Bauer, R. C. Dhuley, P. Lukens, L. D. Martin, M. K. Ruschman, R. L. Schmitt, and G. L. Tatkowski, IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering 278 , 012118 (2017). [34] F. Pobell, Matter and Methods at Low Temperatures 

(Springer, 3rd edition, 2006). [35] “Electronic industries alliance standards,” The inner di-mensions, operating frequency range, and performance characteristics of rectangular waveguides are pecified in the standards RS-261-B. [36] W. K. Yam, M. Renger, S. Gandorfer, F. Fesquet, M. Handschuh, K. E. Honasoge, F. Kronowetter, Y. No-jiri, M. Partanen, M. Pfeiffer, H. van der Vliet, A. J. Matthews, J. Govenius, R. N. Jabdaraghi, M. Prunnila, A. Marx, F. Deppe, R. Gross, and K. G. Fedorov, npj Quantum Information 11 , 87 (2025). [37] J. H. Lienhard, IV and J. H. Lienhard, V, A Heat Trans-fer Textbook , 5th ed. (Dover Publications, Mineola, NY, 2019). [38] M. A. Bramson, Infrared Radiation (Springer, New York, NY, 1968) pp. 533–552. [39] V. Parma, CAS - CERN Accelerator School: Course on Superconductivity for Accelerators (2014), 10.5170/CERN-2014-005.353. [40] W. A. Marlow, Design of Multilayer Insulation for the Multipurpose Hydrogen Test Bed , Tech. Rep. (NASA, 2011). [41] The working principle of MLI is based on radiation bal-ance. One reflective foil between the vacuum can and the 50 K shield will be irradiated from the vacuum can with some power P heating up the foil so that its radiated power is in balance with the irradiation. Hence power P/ 2is emitted on each side, and inserting the foil reduces the radiation heat load on the 50K shield by a factor of two. This effect can be multiplied by adding several layers of reflecting and insulating foils [42]. [42] C.-S. Kang, in Microsatellites as Research Tools ,COSPAR Colloquia Series, Vol. 10, edited by F.-B. Hsiao (Pergamon, 1999) pp. 175–179. [43] Q. Shu, R. Fast, and H. Hart, Cryogenics 26 , 671 (1986). [44] W. L. Johnson and J. E. Fesmire, in Cryogenic Engineer-ing Conference / Cryogenic Society of America (NASA, Kennedy Space Center, Cocoa Beach, FL, 2009) (ac-cessed: 12.08.2025). [45] M. M. Finckenor and D. Dooling, Multilayer Insulation Material Guidelines , Technical Publication NASA/TP-1999-209263 (NASA Marshall Space Flight Center / D2 Associates, Huntsville, AL, United States, 1999) (ac-cessed: 12.08.2025). [46] 3D Systems, “Accura bluestone (sla),” (accessed: 10.02.2025). [47] A. L. Woodcraft, Cryogenics 45 , 626 (2005). [48] German copper association: Kupferschl¨ ussel 1.0 (visited on 06.06.2024). [49] F. R. Fickett, Journal of Physics F: Metal Physics 12 ,1753 (1982). [50] P. Kurpiers, Quantum Networks with Superconducting Circuits , Ph.D. thesis, ETH Zurich (2019). [51] L. J. Salerno and P. Kittel, Thermal Contact Conduc-tance , Tech. Rep. (NASA, 1997). [52] NIST Material Measurement Laborator, “Material prop-erties of 6061-t6 aluminum (UNS A96061),” (accessed: 06.06.2024). [53] C. B. Satterthwaite, Phys. Rev. 125 , 873 (1962). [54] P. Magnard, Meter-scale Microwave Quantum Networks for Superconducting Circuits , Ph.D. thesis, ETH Zurich (2021). [55] L. W. McKeen, Permeability properties of plastics and elastomers , fourth edition ed., PDL Plastics Design Li-brary (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2017). [56] Pfeiffer Vacuum GmbH, “The digital vacuum technology book,” (accessed: 23.04.2024). [57] D. M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, 4th Edition (In-ternational Adaptation). , 4th ed. (John Wiley & Sons, Incorporated, New York, 2021). 24 

[58] S. Storz, Non-local Physics with Superconducting Cir-cuits , Ph.D. thesis, ETH Zurich (2023). [59] X. Y. Jin, A. Kamal, A. P. Sears, T. Gudmundsen, D. Hover, J. Miloshi, R. Slattery, F. Yan, J. Yoder, T. P. Orlando, S. Gustavsson, and W. D. Oliver, Phys. Rev. Lett. 114 , 240501 (2015). [60] A. Kulikov, R. Navarathna, and A. Fedorov, Phys. Rev. Lett. 124 , 240501 (2020). [61] P. Magnard, P. Kurpiers, B. Royer, T. Walter, J.-C. Besse, S. Gasparinetti, M. Pechal, J. Heinsoo, S. Storz, A. Blais, and A. Wallraff, Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 060502 (2018). [62] B. Vermersch, P.-O. Guimond, H. Pichler, and P. Zoller, Phys. Rev. Lett. 118 , 133601 (2017). [63] S. Rosenblum, W. Steyert, and F. Fickett, Cryogenics 

17 , 645 (1977). [64] G. F. Pe˜ nas, R. Puebla, T. Ramos, P. Rabl, and J. J. Garc´ ıa-Ripoll, Phys. Rev. Applied 17 , 054038 (2022). [65] U. Vazirani and T. Vidick, Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 , 140501 (2014). [66] S. Pironio, A. Ac´ ın, S. Massar, A. B. de la Giroday, D. N. Matsukevich, P. Maunz, S. Olmschenk, D. Hayes, L. Luo, T. A. Manning, and C. Monroe, Nature 464 ,1021 (2010). [67] M. Kessler and R. Arnon-Friedman, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Information Theory 1, 568 (2020). [68] I. ˇSupi´ c, D. Cavalcanti, and J. Bowles, Quantum 5, 418 (2021). [69] J. Bowles, I. ˇSupi´ c, D. Cavalcanti, and A. Ac´ ın, Phys. Rev. Lett. 121 , 180503 (2018). [70] F. Dinc, L. E. Hayward, and A. M. Bra´ nczyk, Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 043149 (2020). [71] F. Dinc and A. M. Branczyk, Phys. Rev. Research 1,032042 (2019). [72] G. Calaj´ o, Y.-L. L. Fang, H. U. Baranger, and F. Cic-carello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122 , 073601 (2019). [73] K.-H. K. Wolfgang Thomala, Schraubenverbindungen 

(Springer Berlin, Heidelberg, 2007). [74] Bossard: Approximate values for metric coarse threads VDI 2230) (visited on 02.11.2023). [75] P. Fessia, S. Clement, R. Fornasiere, E.and Gauthier, M. Goncalves Lopes, S. Izquierdo Bermudez, L. . Lam-bert, A. Cherif, A. Gerardin, S. Langeslag, S. M. Mar-cuzzi, and M. Brugger, “The new rapid prototyping ma-chine at the cern polymer lab,” (2013). [76] M&I materials, “Apiezon n grease,” (accessed: 14.02.2025). [77] Q. S. Shu, R. W. Fast, and H. L. Hart, “An exper-imental study of heat transfer in multilayer insulation systems from room temperature to 77 k,” in Advances in Cryogenic Engineering: Volume 31 , edited by R. W. Fast (Springer US, Boston, MA, 1986) pp. 455–463. [78] J. Fesmire, S. Augustynowicz, and C. Darve, “Icec19 proceeding: Performance characterization of perfo-rated multilayer insulation blankets,” (2002), (accessed: 20.02.2025). [79] B. Heine, Werkstoffpr¨ ufung : Ermittlung von Werkstof-feigenschaften (Hanser, M¨ unchen, 2011). [80] F. P. Beer, E. R. J. Johnston, J. T. DeWolf, and D. F. Mazurek, Mechanics of Materials , 6th ed. (McGraw-Hill, 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, 2012). [81] E. D. Marquardt, J. P. Le, and R. Radebaugh, Cryocool-ers 11 , 681 (2002). [82] A. L. Woodcraft and A. Gray, eds., A low temperature thermal conductivity database. AIP Conference Proceed-ings. 1185. 681-684. 10.1063/1.3292433. (2009). [83] C. Enss and S. Hunklinger, Low-Temperature Physics ,1st ed. (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2005). [84] N. Simon, E. Drexler, and R. Reed, NIST Monograph 

177 (1992). [85] S. Krinner, S. Storz, P. Kurpiers, P. Magnard, J. Heinsoo, R. Keller, J. L¨ utolf, C. Eichler, and A. Wallraff, EPJ Quantum Technology 6, 2 (2019). [86] Lake Shore cryotronics, “Cryogenic temperature sen-sors,” (accessed: 10.02.2025). [87] P. Duthil, arXiv:1501.07100 (2015), 10.5170/CERN-2014-005.77.