Title: 2603.17101v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.17101v1

Published Time: Thu, 19 Mar 2026 00:13:35 GMT

Number of Pages: 29

Markdown Content:
1

# Interplay of s uperconducti vity  and  ferro magneti sm  in  ferromagnetic -

# semiconductor -based Josephson junction s

Hirotaka Hara 1* , Lukas Baker 2*, Axel Leblanc 2, Shingen Miura 1, Keita Ishihara 1,

Melissa Mikalsen 2, Patrick  J.  Strohbeen 2, Jacob Issokson 2, Masaaki Tanaka 1,3,4 ,

Javad Shabani 2, †, and Le Duc Anh 1,3 ,† 

> 1

Dep ar tment  of Electrical Engineering and Information Systems, The University of Tokyo, 

Tokyo, Japan  

> 2

Center  for  Quantum Information Physics , New York University , New York , USA  

> 3

Center for Spintronics Research Network, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan  

> 4

Institute for Nano Quantum Information Electronics, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan 

* These authors contribute equally to this work. 

> †

Corresponding author:  anh@cryst.t.u -tokyo.ac.jp , jshabani@nyu.edu 

Abstract 

The interplay between superconductivity and ferromagnetism has long been pursued as a 

route to unconventional Josephson effects, yet suitable material platforms remain limited. 

Here we report Josephson junctions based on epitaxial Al/InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb 

heteros tructures grown by low -temperature molecular beam epitaxy, achieving 

atomically abrupt superconductor  / semiconductor  / ferromagnetic -semiconductor 

interfaces. The devices exhibit clear proximity -induced superconductivity, including 

multiple Andreev reflections and gate -tunable supercurrents, confirming transparent 

coupling across the hybrid structure. Under perpendicular magnetic fields, the junctio ns 

reveal highly unconventional Fraunhofer interference patterns with hysteresis, flux jumps, 

asymmetric lobe evolution, and  clear  nonreciprocity, providing strong evidence of 

induced ferromagnetism and broken tim e-reversal symmetry , a nd possible existence of 

the edge channels  in the  Josephson junctions.  Our results demon strate that ferromagnetic 

semiconductor heterostructures can serve as a  highly tunable  platform for exploring 

proximity -induced superconductivity and superconducting diode effects, and for 

advancing device concepts at the intersection of magnetism and quantum electronics. 2

Introduction 

The coexistence of superconductivity and ferromagnetism has been actively 

investigated for several decades, as their antagonistic nature gives rise to intriguing 

phenomena such as Josephson  π-junctions [1], spin -triplet superconductivity [2], and 

supercond ucting diode effect [3]. To real ise  π-junctions, ferromagnetic barriers are often 

introduced between two superconductors using diluted ferromagnetic metals [4 ][ 5]. In 

contrast, non -diluted ferromagnets, with their large exchange energies, drastically 

suppr ess the superconducting coherence length in the ferromagnetic region, where only 

spin -triplet supercurrents can survive if present. Such Josephson junctions incorporating 

ferromagnets are valuable not only for elucidating the interplay between 

superconduct ivity and ferromagnetism but also for developing superconducting device 

applications [6 ]-[8]. However, their physical properties are highly sensitive to the 

thickness and composition of the ferromagnetic materials, which presents challenges for 

practical d evices [5 ][ 9]. 

An alternative approach to realizing  π-junctions employs 

superconductor/semiconductor heterostructures. In semiconductors with a large g -factor, 

large  Zeeman splitting can be induced by an external magnetic field, resulting in non -zero 

pairing momentum of Cooper pairs and the emergence of the Fulde –Ferrell –Larkin –

Ovchinnikov (FFLO) state [10 ][11]. This state also leads to  π-phase shifts in Josephson 

junctions based on semiconductors [12] -[15].  Although the use of external magnetic fields 

are generally undes irable for scalable architectures , superconductor/semiconductor 

heterostructures have been widely adopted as a platform for supe rconducting quantum 

devices, owing to the high  controllability  of proximity -induced superconductivity by 

applying an  electrical gat e voltage  [16]. In particular, epitaxially grown heterostructures 

with atomically clean interfaces are promising for applications such as gatemons [17 ][ 18] 

and topological qubits [19 ][ 20]. 

In pursuit of a versatile platform for both fundamental physics and device 

applications, this study focuses on  Fe -doped narrow -gap III -V ferromagnetic 

semiconductors (FMSs) as a host for proximity -induced superconductivity. Narrow -gap 

III –V FMSs are particularly promising candidates because they are expected to form 

Ohmic and  transparent interfaces with superconductors, reducing interfacial energy 

barriers, as demonstrated in Al/InAs heterostructures [21 ]-[24]. Moreover, both carrier 

concentration and ferr omagnetic exchange energy  in Fe -doped narrow -gap III –V FMSs 

can be tuned by  applying an  electrical gat e voltage  [25 ][ 26]. These experimental 

achievements suggest that superconductor/Fe -doped III –V FMS heterostructures provide 

a unique platform for systematically studying proximity -induced superconductivity in 3

ferromagnets, in line with theoretical predictions [27 ][ 28]. Additionally, a semiconductor 

system exhibiting both spontaneous spin splitting and proximity -induced 

superconductivity may play a key role in the context of Majorana physics. 

To date, proximity -induced superconductivity in FMSs has only been 

demonstrated in Nb/Fe -doped InAs  ((In,Fe)As ) heterostructures [29 ][ 30]. In that study, 

long -range proximity effects and hysteretic behav iour  were observed in superconducting 

(In,Fe)As channels through transport measurements, suggesting the existence of spin -

triplet supercurrents. While these results highlight the importance of further studies on 

superconductor/FMS heterostructures, several lim itations remain. First, the Nb/(In,Fe)As 

heterostructures were  grown  ex -situ  (after  growing InFeAs by molecular beam epitaxy 

(MBE), the sample was exposed to  air  and then Nb was  depos ited  in  another  vacuum 

chamber) , which may compromise interface quality. Second,  gate voltage control  of  the 

(In,Fe)As  properties  is challenging and has only been real ise d using electronic double -

layer transistor (EDLT) methods with liquid electrolytes [25 ][ 26]. 

To overcome these limitations, we focus here on Al/InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb 

heterostructures , where the whole  heterostructures  are  grown  in -situ  by  MBE  in an 

ultrahigh vacuum  without  expos ure  to air , ensuring clean interfaces. In InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb 

heterostructures, the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer becomes insulating at low temperatures [31],  so  that 

electrical transport primarily occurs through the InAs  layer [32]. Importantly, the InAs 

channel  exhibits large and tunable spin splitting in the conduction band resulting from  a

strong magnetic proximity effect  by  the  adjacent  FMS (Ga,Fe)Sb , owing  to large 

penetration of the  electron  wavefunction  in InAs  to  the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer in the type -III 

band alignment [32 ][ 33]. Spin splitting as large as 18 meV  in InAs  has been observed, 

which is  controllable by modulation of the  carrier  wavefunction  and concentration  via 

gate voltage  [33]. Therefore, superconductor  Al  / InAs  / Fe -doped FMS  (Ga,Fe)Sb 

heterostructures represent a promising platform for investigating proximity -induced 

superconductivity and ferromagnetism under electrostatic control.  Th is  central concept of 

this study is shown in Fig. 1. 

Results 

The Al/InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb heterostructure  grown by low -temperature molecular 

beam epitaxy (LT -MBE) is shown in Fig.  2(a). After  growing  Al Sb /Al As  buffer layers on 

a GaAs  (001) semi -insulating  substrate, a 5  nm -thick  (In,Ga )As / 15  nm -thick  InAs / 20 

nm -thick  (Ga,Fe)Sb  heterostructure , from top to bottom,  was grown at 250℃ to suppress 

Fe segregation in the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer. The  thin  (In,Ga)As layer contain ing  19% indium 

(In)  is inserted between the Al and the InAs layers to make better 4

superconduct or/semiconductor interfaces.  The (Ga,Fe)Sb layer contain ing  14.6% iron 

(Fe)  is an FMS layer to induce  a magnetic proximity effect in the adjacent InAs layer . A 

10  nm -thick  Al film was subsequently  grown  in situ  at  a temperature below −40℃. 

Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images in Figs.  2(b) and  2(c) show that the 

semiconductor layers retain the zinc -blende -type  crystal  structure throughout MBE 

growth. Figure  2(c) further indicates that the Al film grows along the [111] direction of 

the face -centered cubic  crystal , consistent with the X -ray diffraction results presented in 

Supplementary Material. The TEM analysis also confirms that the Al/(In,Ga)As interface 

is clean and atomically sharp. 

We first character ise  the sample transport and magnetic properties. 

Magnetotransport of the InAs layer at 3.7 K under a perpendicular magnetic field  was 

measured  after removing the Al layer by wet etching.  As shown in  Fig . 2(d) , we observe 

clear Shubnikov -de Haas  (SdH)  oscillations , from which  we  estima ted  the  electron 

mobility  μ to be  3.2×10³ cm²V ⁻¹s⁻¹ along the [ 1̅10] crystal direction and 1.8×10³ cm²V⁻¹s⁻¹ 

along the [110] direction,  and  the  electron  carrier density  n to be  3.5×10¹² cm⁻².  Th ese 

mobility  values  are  the highest reported so far  for two -dimensional electrons in 

InAs/(Ga,Fe )Sb heterostructures  [32] . Figure  2(e) presents magnetic circular dichroism 

(MCD) and  superconducting quantum  interference  device ( SQUID ) magnetometry data. 

At 5 K, both  measurements  reveal clear hysteresis loops in good agreement  with each 

other , which gradually vanish with increasing temperature. The Curie temperature is 

estimated to be 25 K from  an Arrott plot of the  MCD –H data . These results demonstrate 

that high -quality Al(111)/InAs/(Ga,Fe )Sb heterostructures with atomically sharp 

interfaces  are successfully  real ise d by  using  LT -MBE. 

Lateral  Josephson junctions  are  then fabricated from this heterostructure using 

electron -beam lithography and wet etching  (see Methods) . A schematic of a gated 

junction  and a scanning electron microscopy image of a real device  are  shown in Fig.  3(a) 

and  (b) , respectively . The junctions reported here are aligned with  the  [11 0] direction of 

the substrates,  along which the  corresponding mean free path  lₑ is  estimated to be  57  nm 

from electron  concentration  n and mobility  μ. The channel length  L is 100 nm and the 

width is 5  μm,  placing the device  in  a diffusive  transport  regime .

Figure  3(c) displays the  V–I characteristics of an ungated junction at 30 mK. 

Unless otherwise stated,  the  V–I data were acquired by sweeping from zero to high bias 

currents  in both  plus and minus  directions. The junction exhibits a zero -resistance state at 

low bias  currents  and nearly linear behav iour  at higher currents.  From these data, we 

extracted  a critical current  Ic = 3.00  μA,  an  excess current  Iex  = 1.91  μA, and  a normal 

resistance  RN = 52.5  Ω.  Figure  3(d) shows the corresponding  dI/ dV spectrum, which 5

exhibits  several  peaks  result ing  from  multiple Andreev reflections (MARs) [34]. These 

peaks satisfy the relation  Vₙ = 2 Δ/ ne, where  Δ is the superconducting gap of Al  and  n is 

an integer constant , and are observable up to  n = ±6. A linear fit of  Vₙ versus 1/ n (Fig. 

3(e)) yields  a superconducting energy gap  Δ = 171 μ eV , which  agrees well with that 

estimated from the critical temperature ( Δ0 = 1.76 kBTc = 196  μeV ). The observation of 

MARs up to sixth order indicates an anomalously long inelastic scattering length in InAs 

(>  600 nm),  although  lₑ (= 57 nm) is  less than  the junction length  L = 100 nm.  As shown 

in Fig.  3(f), even under applying a gate voltage  Vg (< 0 V) , the  MAR peaks persist, while 

the supercurrent decreases systematically with  in creasing  |Vg| (negative  Vg depletes 

electrons in the InAs channel) . This demonstrates successful modulation of the critical 

current by electrostatic gating , which is important for practical device applications and 

provid es  further evidence for proximity -induced supercurrent through the  semiconductor 

InAs layer .

The  Josephson junction  interface transparency  can be quantitatively evaluated 

by parameters  α = eIcRN/Δ = 0.92  and  α′  = eIex RN/Δ = 0.59.  Th e α value correspond s to 

29%/44% of the ballistic/diffusive theoretical limits,  and  the α’ value correspond s to 

22%/4 0% of the ballistic/diffusive theoretical limits , respectively [35 ]-[38]. While  these 

data are  not the highest  among  reported  values , they exceed those of 

superconductor/semiconductor junctions  prepared by sputtering  and are comparable to 

those of  epitaxially grown heterostructures [39]. These results confirm proximity -induced 

superconductivity with relatively high interface transparency in  our  Al/ Fe -doped FMS 

heterostructures. 

Next, we examined  electrical  transport under external magnetic fields in ungated 

(Fig.  4) and gated (Fig.  5) Josephson junction  devices. Figures  4(a) and  4(b) show 

differential resistance as a function of perpendicular  magnetic  field  B and bias current  I

when  B is swept in opposite directions . Black arrows indicate the  magnetic field  sweep ing 

directions, and  Bini  denotes the initiali sation  field applied to align the (Ga,Fe)Sb 

magneti sation  before each measurement . The  Fraunhofer patterns , where  the 

superconducting regions  are  shown in yellow,  exhibit unique  and unconventional  features 

that are distinctly different from the  B-symmetric patterns  in non -magnetic Josephson 

junction s [40 ][41] . In particular, t he critical current  Ic display  maxima at non -zero  B,

which have  the  same magnitude but opposite sign  depend ing  on the magnetic -field 

sweep ing  direction . Such  hysteresis behav iour  provide s strong evidence of induced 

ferromagnetism in the superconducting  InAs  channel.  Moreover, the re  are  several 

noteworthy features:  Unequal oscillation periods of the critical current between 

successive lobes; and non -monotonic decay of the  Ic away from the central lobe , and 6

numerous discontinuous points during magnetic -field sweeps,  which we identify  as flux 

jumps  (the  flux jumps, however,  do not occur at exactly the same magnetic field across 

repeated measurements ). These d eviations  from an ideal Fraunhofer pattern may arise 

from non -uniform magnetic -field and/or current distributions in the junction [4 2]-[44]. 

Such  nonuniformity may originate from the  magneti sation  reversal of magnetic domains 

in (Ga,Fe)Sb,  which  affect s the magnetic -field distribution, and from  accumulation of 

electrons at the two edges of the InAs channel , which will be  discussed later. 

We conducted  a fine -field scan around the maximum critical current  (~  −0.5 mT) 

in Fig.  4(a), where  Ic oscillations are observed without flux jumps , as shown in Fig.  4(c) .

The horizontal axis represents the magnetic field relative to the  center  field  Bshift  (~  −0.5 

mT)  defined as the point of maximal  Ic. The oscillation period of 0.14 mT , which is 

determined  with  the fitting curve expressed  by  the  conventional  Fraunhofer equation  Ic(B)

= I0 sinc( πΓBS /Φ0) where  Γ,  S,  Φ0 is a flux focusing factor, the junction size, and  the  flux 

quant um , is much smaller than the theoretical  value of  0.86 mT  estim ated from the 

junction size. This  indicat es  the  flux focusing factor  Γ of 6.2 , likely  arising from  the 

Meissner effect of Al electrodes and stray fields from (Ga,Fe)Sb. Furthermore, the pattern 

is slightly skewed and the critical current exhibits pronounced nonreciprocity, with a 

diode efficiency  η = (| Ic⁺| − | Ic⁻|)/(| Ic⁺| + | Ic⁻|) reaching 20% at  the  minim um of the 

Fraunhofer pattern  (violet circles in Fig. 4(c)) . Here,  the  superscripts ± denote  opposite 

current directions.  η is nearly antisymmetric with respect to the relative field  B* = B −

Bshift . The relations  Ic⁺(+ B*) ≠  Ic⁻(+ B*) and  Ic⁺(+ B*) ≠  Ic⁺(− B*) manifest the  broken time -

reversal symmetry in the junction, providing further evidence of proximity -induced 

magnetism in the superconducting  InAs  chann el.  Combined with  space -inversion -

symmetry breaking inherent to the  asymmetric  heterostructure stacking , such time -

reversal -symmetry breaking  possibly  induces the observed superconducting diode effect .

To gain  a further insight into the junction characteristics, fast Fourier 

transformation (FFT) was performed on the Fraunhofer patterns shown in Fig.  4(c). The 

FFT analysis provides a spatial mapping of the current distribution along the in -plane  y-

direction, which is perpendicular to the current flow, as illustrated in Figs.  4(d) and  4(e). 

The details of the FFT procedure are described in Supplementary Material and in  a

reference [45]. The fitted current profile does not appear completely flat due to the limited 

num ber of lobes in the Fraunhofer pattern shown in Fig.  4(c). The obtained current 

distribution indicates a tendency for the supercurrent to concentrate near the physical 

edges of the junction, in contrast to the more homogenous  profile  derived from the fitting 

curve expressed by a sinc function. 

As shown in Fig. 5(a) -(d),  Fraunhofer patterns at gate voltages of  Vg = 0 V and 7

−10 V under opposite sweep ing  directions  of magnetic field  consistently exhibit 

hysteresis  behav iour  depending on the  sweep ing  direction ; the overall shapes remain 

similar  while  the critical current decreases with  applying  gate voltage  Vg. Figure  5(e) 

shows a color ed  map of  the  critical current  Ic versus  the  perpendicular  magnetic  field ,

which has the same set up as those in Fig.  5(b)(d), when  Vg is further swept from  −10 V 

to  −25 V.  Two distinct regions with  relatively large  Ic are observed ; peak 1 ( from  −1.6 to 

−0.7 mT) and  peak 2 ( from  −0.6 to 0 mT).  As shown in Fig.  5(f), upon decreasing  Vg the 

decay of  Ic in peak 1 closely follows the decrease of the  electron  carrier densit y n in  the 

InAs channel, which was  obtain ed  by  Hall measurements at 5 K.  This indicates that the 

change of  Ic in peak 1 directly results from the depletion of Cooper pairs in the junction 

channel. On the other hand, the decay of  Ic upon  decreasing  Vg in p eak 2  is  noticeably 

weak er  than either  that of p eak 1 or the carrier density . This unusual behav iour  suggests 

that superconducting transport in the junction involves multiple conduction channels, 

rather than a single uniform one , which is likely consistent with current density mapping 

obtained by FFT (Fig. 4( d)) .

Furthermore , there  are  also  pieces of  evidence  supporting  edge channels in the 

Fraunhofer patterns upon closer inspection. First, the Fraunhofer patterns exhibit node -

lifting, i.e., a nonzero critical current at the local minima of the pattern, as clearly 

observed in  the first node (the nearest nodes from the maximum critical current) but not 

in the second nodes (the second nearest nodes from the maximum one) of the data in Fig. 

4(c) . In conventional Fraunhofer interference, these minima should  be zero.  Previously, 

observations of node -lifting  in the Fraunhofer p atterns  were  attributed to  the existence of 

edge channels , which are either topologically non -trivial  [46] -[49 ] or  trivial [ 50]. Second, 

the maximum critical current in each lobe does not decay monotonically with  the  distance 

from the central  lobe but  instead alternates between large and small values —a

phenomenon known as even –odd modulation . This can be  clearly observed around 0.5 

mT in Fig.  4(a) and −0.5 mT in Fig.  4(b). Th e even −odd modulation  occur s by the beating 

between  h/2 e (2 e-transport)  and  h/e-periodicity  (e-transport)  of the Fraunhofer patterns 

[51]. While the  h/2 e periodicity is conventional, t he h/e-periodicity  is often associated 

with  crossed  Andreev reflections  involving  two  edge channels  [50] [52]-[5 5]. In our 

junctions, however, this is  opened to discussion  considering that the  estimated 

superconducting coherent length  (~1.7  μm) is much shorter than the  junction  width (~5 

μm).  Nevertheless , these observations  collectively  point to the possible existence of 

superconducting edge channels , carrying both  Cooper pairs and quasi -particles , in the 

InAs  region .

Edge channels have indeed been reported at the two sides of InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb 8

heterostructures [ 56]. Under  a perpendicular magnetic field, their normal conductance 

changes with opposite sign, producing  large  odd -parity magnetoresistance attributed to 

simultaneous breaking of time -reversal symmetry (via the magnetic proximity effect) and 

inversion symmetry at the edges.  Consistent with this picture, the FFT analysis in Fig. 

4(d) reveals a  slight  asymmetry between the supercurrent densities at the two edges.  The

skewness of the Fraunhofer pattern may  involve the asymmetric contributions from  the 

edge channels , as su ggested previously in  twisted bilayer graphene Josephson junction s

[5 7].  Further study  is needed to fully  understand the unconventional interference 

behav iour  in these ferromagnetic junctions. 

In conclusion, we have observed superconducting proximity effects in Josephson 

junctions fabricated from  MBE -grown  Al/InAs/ FMS  (Ga,Fe )Sb heterostructures. The 

junctions exhibit gate -tunable critical currents, a key feature for device applications 

exploiting semiconductor properties. Furthermore, they display Fraunhofer patterns with 

magnetic hysteresis, indicative of induced ferromagnet ism in the superconducting  InAs 

channel. Transport characteristics, including Fraunhofer interference, also provide 

possible evidence of edge -channel  superconducting transport . Previously, a s pin splitting 

energy  of up to 18 meV has been observed in InAs w hen interfaced with (Ga,Fe)Sb 

containing 20%  Fe and a Curie temperature of 300 K  [33]. This spin -splitting energy is 

large enough to support  a π-phase transition, as it significantly exceeds the Zeeman energy 

in semiconductors [12 ]-[15] and is comparable to the exchange energy in diluted 

ferromagnets [58 ]-[60].  However , the (Ga,Fe)Sb used in this study  has a Curie 

temperature of only 25 K  and small remanent magneti sation (see Supplementary 

Material) , resulting in a smaller spin -splitting energy that may be  insufficient for 

reversing the phase  of the superconducting wavefunction  across  the junction length, 

though it could help reduce spin -related scattering and enhance InAs mobility. Therefore, 

Al –InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb –Al heterostructures with improved magnetic properties  are  required 

to real ise  π-phase transitions  in the future work.  These gate -controllable ferromagnetic 

Josephson junctions offer a promising platform for studying the coexistence of 

superconductivity and ferromagnetism and for developing new superconducting quantum 

devices. 

Methods 

Sample  preparation 

Al /InAs/ FMS  (Ga,Fe)Sb  heterostructures were grown on GaAs  (001) semi -insulating 

substrates using a n MBE system equipped with  two connected ultrahigh -vacuum 

chambers . The native oxide layer was removed  in a chamber special ise d for III -V9

semiconductor s by heating the substrates to 580℃. Subsequently, GaAs and 5 -nm AlAs 

buffer layers were grown at 570℃, followed by an AlSb buffer layer deposited at 470℃. 

After the buffer  layer  growth, the substrate temperature was lowered to  250 ℃, and LT -

MBE was employed to grow 20 -nm (Ga₀.₈₅₄,Fe₀.₁₄₆)Sb, 15 -nm InAs, and 5-nm 

(In₀.₈₁,Ga₀.₁₉)As layers. The Fe concentration in (Ga,Fe)Sb was calibrated by secondary 

ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) and Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy (RBS).  Then, 

the  sample  was transferred  in -situ  to  the other  MBE  chamber  and cooled  down by thermal 

contact to a  liquid nitrogen  dumper  for more than 90 minutes to reach below −40℃. Once 

sufficiently cooled, a 10 -nm -thick  Al layer was grown on top of the semiconductor  layer s.

Fabrication of Josephson junction s

Lateral Josephson junctions  (JJ)  with an Al –InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb –Al conduction path were 

fabricated using a top -down process. First, Al electrodes and bonding pads were patterned 

by electron -beam lithography with PMMA resist, followed by wet etching using Transene 

Type -D etchant for the Al laye r and a mixed solution of phosphoric acid, hydrogen 

peroxide, and water for the III –V semiconductor layers, including the FMS layer. Trench 

structures defining the junctions were then formed by electron -beam lithography and 

etched with Transene Type -D etchant.  To fabricate JJ s with gate structures, a 40 -nm Al₂O₃ 

gate dielectric was deposited by atomic layer deposition at a substrate temperature of 

40℃. Subsequently, a gate electrode consisting of 10 -nm -thick  Ti and 70 -nm -thick  Au 

was deposited by electron -beam evaporation, and the gate area was defined by a lift -off 

process. 

Electrical measurements 

For the evaluation of the  lateral  JJs, measurements were performed in a low -temperature 

environment at 30 mK using an Oxford Triton dilution refrigerator. The junctions were 

character ise d under current -biased conditions using either a DC measurement setup 

(Keithley 6500) or a low -frequency AC lock -in technique (Stanford SR860). 

To investigate  the  influence of  the  (Ga,Fe)Sb magneti sation on the junction properties, 

special care was taken during the application of external magnetic fields. Prior to each 

magnetic -field sweep, an initial magnetic field was applied to align the magneti sation 

direction of the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer, follow ed by  conventional procedures used in magnetic 

characteri sation s. This initiali sation  ensures that the subsequent measurements can be 

compared on a consistent basis, even though the process may allow vortices  to enter the 

Josephson junctions. 10 

References 

[1]  A. I.  Buzdin,  L. N.  Bulaevskii,  and  S. V.  Panyukov,  “Critical -current oscillations as  a

function of the exchange field and thickness of the ferromagnetic metal (F) in  a S -F-

S Josephson junction ”, JETP Lett.  35,  178 -180 (1982). 

[2]  F. S.  Bergeret,  A. F.  Volkov,  and K. B.  Efetov,  “Long -range proximity effects in 

superconductor -ferromagnet structures ”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 4096 -4099  (2001). 

[3]  M.  Nadeem,  M. S.  Fuhrer,  and X.  Wang,  “The superconducting diode effect ”, Nature 

Rev . Ph ys.  5, 558 -577  (2023). 

[4] V. V.  Ryazanov,  V. A.  Oboznov,  A. Y.  Rusanov,  A. V.  Veretennikov,  A. A.  Golubov, 

and  J.  Aarts,  “Coupling of two superconductors through a ferromagnet: Evidence for 

a π junction ”, Phys . Rev.  Lett . 86, 2427  (2001) .

[5] N. O. Birge and N. Satchell,  “Ferromagnetic  materials for Josephson  π junctions ”,

APL Mater.  12, 041105 (2024) .

[6]  A.  K. Feofanov , V. A. Oboznov, V. V. Bol’ginov, J. Lisenfeld, S. Poletto, V. V. 

Ryazanov,  A. N. Rossolenko, M. Khabipov, D. Balashov, A. B. Zorin, P. N. Dmitriev, 

V. P. Koshelets  and A. V. Ustinov1 , “Implementation of superconductor/ferromagnet/ 

superconductor  π-shifters in superconducting digital and quantum circuits ”, Nature 

Phys . 6, 593 -597  (2010 ).

[7]  S. Alam, M . S. Hossain, S . R. Srinivasa , and  A. Aziz , “Cryogenic memory 

technology ”, Nature Electronics 6, 185 -198 (2023). 

[8] S. Kim , L. V. Abdurakhimov, D . Pham, W . Qiu, H . Terai,  S. Ashha, S . Saito, T .

Yamashita , and  K. Semba,  “Superconducting flux qubit with ferromagnetic 

Josephson  π-junction operating at zero magnetic field ”, Commun . Mater . 5, 216 

(2024 ).

[9]  A. Mitrovic and M. Bocko,  “Josephson junctions with ferromagnetic barriers for 

digital superconducting electronics: A review ”, Phys . Rev . Applied 

23,  067001  (2025 ).

[10]  P.  Fulde,  and  R. A.  Ferrell,  “Superconductivity in a strong spin -exchange field ”, Phys. 

Rev.  135,  A550 -A564 (1964). 

[11]  A. I.  Larkin,  and  Y. N.  Ovchinnikov,  “Inhomogeneous state of superconductors ”, Sov. 

Phys. JETP  20,  762 -769 (1965). 

[12]  S. Hart, H . Ren, M . Kosowsky, G . B.-Shach, P . Leubner, C . Brüne,  H. Buhmann, L .

W. Molenkamp, B . I. Halperin1 , and A . Yacoby , “Controlled finite momentum 

pairing and spatially  varying order parameter in proximitized HgTe  quantum wells ”,

Nature Phys. 13, 87 -93 (2017). 

[13]  C. T. Ke, C . M. Moehle, F . K. Vries, C . Thomas, S . Metti,  C.  R. Guinn, R . Kallaher, 

M. Lodari, G . Scappucci, T . Wang, R . E. Diaz,  G. C. Gardner, M . J. Manfra , and  S.

Goswami , “Ballistic superconductivity and tunable  π–junctions  in InSb quantum 

wells ”, Nature Commun. 10, 3764 (2019). 

[1 4] D. Z. Haxell, M . Coraiola, D . Sabonis, M . Hinderling, S . C. t . Kate, E . Cheah,  F.

Krizek, R . Schott, W . Wegscheider, and Fabrizio Nichele , “Zeeman - and Orbital -

Driven Phase Shifts in Planar Josephson Junctions ”, ACS Nano 17,  18139 -18147 

(2023 ).

[15 ] P. Mandal, S . Mondal, M . P. Stehno, S . Ili ć, F. S . Bergeret, T . M. Klapwijk, C . Gould ,

and  L. W. Molenkamp , “Magnetically tunable supercurrent in dilute  magnetic 

topological insulator -based  Josephson junctions ”, Nature Phys. 20, 984 -990 (2024). 

[16]  L. Ruf , C. Puglia , T. Elalaily , G. De Simoni , F. Joint , M. Berke , J. Koch , A. Iorio , S. 11 

Khorshidian , P. Makk , S. Gasparinetti , S. Csonka , W. Belzig , M. Cuoco , F. Giazotto ,

E. Scheer , and  A. D. Bernardo , “Gate control of superconducting current: 

Mechanisms, parameters, and technological potential ”, Appl. Phys. Rev. 11, 041314 

(2024). 

[17]  T.W. Larsen, K. D. Petersson, F. Kuemmeth, T. S. Jespersen, P. Krogstrup, J. Nygård, 

and C. M. Marcus , “Semiconductor -Nanowire -Based Superconducting Qubit ”, Pyhs. 

Rev. Lett. 115, 127001 (2015). 

[18]  L. Casparis, M . R. Connolly, M . Kjaergaard, N . J. Pearson, A . Kringhøj,  T. W. Larsen, 

F. Kuemmeth, T . Wang, C . Thomas, S . Gronin,  G. C. Gardner, M . J. Manfra, C . M. 

Marcus , and K. D. Petersson , “Superconducting gatemon qubit based on a

proximitized two -dimensional  electron gas ”, Nature Nanotech. 13, 915 -919 (2018). 

[19] S. M. Frolov, M. J. Manfra, and J. D. Sau,  “Topological  superconductivity  in hybrid 

devices ”, Nature Phys. 16, 718 -724 (2020). 

[20 ] S. D. Sarma,  “In search of Majorana ”, Nature Phys. 19, 165 -170 (2023). 

[2 1] W. Chang, S. M. Albrecht, T. S. Jespersen, F. Kuemmeth, P. Krogstrup, J. Nygård ,

and C. M. Marcus , “Hard gap in epitaxial semiconductor -superconductor nanowires ”,

Nature Nanotech. 10, 232 -236 (2015). 

[22]  M. Kjaergaard, F. Nichele, H.  J. Suominen, M.  P. Nowak, M. Wimmer, A.  R. 

Akhmerov, J.  A. Folk,  K. Flensberg, J. Shabani, C.  J. Palmstr øm, and  C.  M. Marcus ,

“Quantized conductance doubling and hard gap in a two -dimensional semiconductor -

superconductor heterostructure ”, Nature. Commun. 7, 12841 (2016). 

[23 ] M. Kjaergaard, H. J. Suominen, M. P. Nowak, A. R. Akhmerov, J. Shabani, C. J. 

Palmstrøm,  F. Nichele, and C. M. Marcus , “Transparent Semiconductor -

Superconductor Interface and Induced Gap  in an Epitaxial Heterostructure Josephson 

Junction ”, Phys. Rev. Appl. 7, 034029 (2017). 

[24 ] W. Mayer, J . Yuan, K . S. Wickramasinghe, T . Nguyen, M . C. Dartiailh,  and Javad 

Shabani , “Superconducting proximity effect in epitaxial  Al -InAs heterostructures ”,

Appl. Phys. Lett. 114, 103104 (2019). 

[2 5] L. D. Anh, P . N. Hai, Y . Kasahara, Y . Iwasa, and M . Tanaka , “Modulation of 

ferromagnetism in (In,Fe)As  quantum  wells via electrically controlled deformation 

of the electron wave functions ”, Phys. Rev. B 92, 161201(R) (2015). 

[2 6] N. T. Tu, P. N. Hai, L. D. Anh, and M. Tanaka,  “Electrical control of ferromagnetism 

in the n -type ferromagnetic  semiconductor (In,Fe)Sb with high Curie temperature ”,

Appl. Phys. Lett. 112, 122409 (2018). 

[2 7] Y. C. Tao, and J. G. Hu,  “Proximity effect in  ferromagnetic 

semiconductor/superconductor junctions ” J. Appl. Phys. 104, 063903 (2008). 

[2 8] T. Yamashita, J . Lee, T . Habe, and Y . Asano , “Proximity effect in a ferromagnetic 

semiconductor with spin -orbit interactions ”, Phys. R ev. B 100, 094501 (2019). 

[2 9] T. Nakamura, L . D. Anh, Y . Hashimoto, Y . Iwasaki, S . Ohya, M . Tanaka, and S .

Katsumoto , “Proximity -Indued Superconductivity in a Ferromagnetic 

Semiconductor (In,Fe)As ”, J. Phys.: Conf. Ser.  969 , 012036  (2018). 

[30 ] T. Nakamura, L . D. Anh, Y . Hashimoto, S . Ohya, M . Tanaka, and S . Katsumoto ,

“Evidence for Spin -Triplet Electron Pairing in the Proximity -Induced 

Superconducting  State of an Fe -Doped InAs Semiconductor ”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 122, 

107001 (2019). 

[31 ] N.  T. Tu, P . N. Hai, L . D. Anh, and M . Tanaka , “Magnetic properties and intrinsic 

ferromagnetism in (Ga,Fe)Sb ferromagnetic semiconductors ”, Phys. Rev. B 92, 12 

144403 (2015). 

[3 2] K. Takiguchi, L . D. Anh, T . Chiba, T . Koyama, D . Chiba , and  M. Tanaka , “Giant 

gate -controlled proximity  magnetoresistance in semiconductor -based  ferromagnetic -

non -magnetic bilayers ”, Nature Phys. 15, 1134 -1139 (2019). 

[3 3] H. Shiratani , K. Takiguchi, L . D. Anh , and  M. Tanaka , “Observation of large spin -

polarized Fermi surface  of a magnetically proximitized semiconductor  quantum 

well ”, Commun. Phys. 7, 6 (2024). 

[3 4] T. M.  Klapwijk,  G. E.  Blonder,  M.  Tinkham,  “Explanation of  Subharmonic Energy 

Gap Structure in Superconducting Contacts ”, Physica B C 109, 1657 -1664  (1982). 

[3 5] V. Ambegaokar and A. Baratoff,  “Tunneling  between  Superconductors ”, Phys. Rev. 

Lett. 10, 486 (1963). 

[36]  K. K. Likharev,  “Superconducting weak links ”, Rev. Mod. Phys. 51, 101 (1979). 

[37]  G. E. Blonder, M. Tinkham, and T. M. Klapwijk,  “Transition from metallic to 

tunneling regimes in superconducting  microconstrictions: Excess current, charge 

imbalance,  and supercurrent conversion ”, Phys. Rev. B 25, 4515 (1982). 

[38]  I. O. Kulik and A. N. Omelyanchuk,  “Contribution to the microscopic theory of the 

Josephson effect in superconducting bridges ”, JETP Lett. 21, 96 (1975), 

[39]  J. O. Yuan, K . S. Wickramasinghe, W . M. Strickland, M . C. Dartiailh,  K. Sardashti, 

M. Hatefipour, and J . Shabani , “Epitaxial superconductor -semiconductor two -

dimensional  systems for superconducting  quantum circuits ”, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A 

39, 033407 (2021) .

[40 ] J. -F. Liu , and K. S. Chan,  “Relation between symmetry breaking and the anomalous 

Josephson effect ”, Phys. Rev. B 82, 125305 (2010). 

[41]  H. J. Suominen, J. Danon, M. Kjaergaard, K. Flensberg, J. Shabani, C. J. Palmstrøm, 

F. Nichele, and C. M. Marcus,  “Anomalous Fraunhofer interference in epitaxial 

superconductor -semiconductor Josephson junctions ”, Phys. Rev. B 95, 035307 

(2017). 

[4 2] V. M. Krasnov, V. A. Oboznov and N. F. Pedersen,  “Fluxon  dynamics in long 

Josephson junctions in the presence of a temperature gradient or spatial 

nonuniformity ”, Phys. Rev. B  55, 14486 -14498,  (1997 ).

[4 3] B. Börcsök, S. Komori, A. I. Buzdin , and  J. W. A. Robinson , “Fraunhofer patterns in 

magnetic  Josephson junctions with nonuniform  magnetic susceptibility ”, Scientific 

Reports 9, 5616 (2019). 

[4 4] V. M. Kransnov,  “Josephson junctions in a local inhomogeneous magnetic field ”,

Phys. Rev. B 101, 144507 (2020). 

[45 ] R. C. Dynes, and T. A. Fulton,  “Supercurrent Density Distribution in Josephson 

Junctions ”, Phys. Rev. B 3, 3015 -3023 (1971). 

[46]  S. Hart, H . Ren, T . Wagner, P . Leubner, M . Mühlbauer, C . Br üne,  H. Buhmann, L .

W. Molenkamp , and A Yacoby , “Induced superconductivity in the quantum spin Hall 

edge ”, Nature Phys. 10, 638 -643 (2014). 

[4 7] C. Kurter, A. D. K. Finck, Y. S. Hor, and D. J. Van Harlingen,  “Evidence for an 

anomalous current -phase relation in topological insulator Josephson junctions ”,

Nature Commun. 6, 7130 (2015). 

[4 8] C. Huang , B. T. Zhou, H . Zhang, B . Yang, R . Liu, H . Wang, Y . Wan,  K. Huang, Z .

Liao, E . Zhang, S . Liu, Q . Deng, Y . Chen, X . Han,  J. Zou, X . Lin, Z . Han, Y . Wang, 

K. T. Law , and  F. Xiu , “Proximity -induced surface superconductivity in Dirac 

semimetal Cd 3As 2”, Nature Commun. 10, 2217 (2019). 13 

[49 ] G. Yue, C . Zhang, E . D. Huemiller, J . H. Montone, G . R. Arias, D . G. Wild,  J. Y. 

Zhang, D . R. Hamilton, X . Yuan, X . Yao, D . Jain, J . Moon, M . Salehi,  N. Koirala, S .

Oh, and D . J. Van Harlingen , “Signatures of Majorana bound states in the diffraction 

patterns of extended  superconductor –topological insulator –superconductor 

Josephson junctions ” Phys. Rev. B 109, 094511 (2024). 

[50]  F. K. de Vries, T . Timmerman, V . P. Ostroukh, J . van Veen, A . J. A. Beukman,  F. Qu, 

M. Wimmer, B .-M. Nguyen, A . A. Kiselev, W . Yi, M . Sokolich,  M. J. Manfra, C . M. 

Marcus, and L . P. Kouwenhoven , “h/e Superconducting Quantum Interference 

through Trivial Edge States in InAs ”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 120, 047702 (2018). 

[51] B. Baxevanis, V. P. Ostroukh, and C. W. J. Beenakker , “Even -odd flux quanta effect 

in the Fraunhofer oscillations of an edge -channel Josephson junction ”, Phys. Rev. B 

91,  041409(R) (2015). 

[52] F. K. de Vries, M . L. Sol, S . Gazibegovic, R . L. M. op het Veld, S . C. Balk,  D. Car, 

E. P. A. M. Bakkers, L . P. Kouwenhoven, and J . Shen , “Crossed Andreev reflection 

in InSb flake Josephson junctions ”, Phys. Rev. Research 1, 032031(R) (2019). 

[53] V. S. Pribiag, A . J. A. Beukman, F . Qu, M . C. Cassidy, C . Charpentier,  W.

Wegscheider , and L . P. Kouwenhoven , “Edge -mode superconductivity in a  two -

dimensional topological insulator ”, Nature Nanotech. 10, 593 -597 (2015). 

[54] Y.-B. Choi, Y . Xie, C .-Z. Chen, J . Park, S .-B. Song, J . Yoon,  B. J. Kim, T . Taniguchi, 

K. Watanabe, J . Kim, K . C. Fong,  M. N. Ali, K . T. Law , and G .-H. Lee , “Evidence of 

higher -order topology in multilayer  WTe 2 from Josephson coupling through 

anisotropic  hinge states ”, Nature Mater. 19, 974 -979 (2020). 

[55] P. Rout, N . Papadopoulos, F . Peñaranda,  K. Watanabe, T . Taniguchi, E . Prada, P . S.-

Jose , and  S. Goswami , “Supercurrent mediated by helical edge  modes in bilayer 

graphene ”, Nature Commun. 15, 856 (2024). 

[5 6] K. Takiguchi, L . D. Anh, T . Chiba, H . Shiratani,  R. Fukuzawa, T . Takahashi , and  M.

Tanaka , “Giant gate -controlled odd -parity magnetoresistance  in one -dimensional 

channels  with a magnetic proximity effect ”, Nature. Commun. 13, 6538 (2022). 

[57] J. Díez -Mérida, A. Díez -Carlón, S. Y. Yang, Y. -M. Xie, X. -J.Gao,  J. Senior, K. 

Watanabe, T. Taniguchi, X. Lu, A. P. Higginbotham,  K. T. Law , and  D. K. Efetov ,

“Symmetry -broken Josephson junctions and  superconducting diodes in magic -angle 

twisted bilayer graphene ”, Nature Commun. 14, 2396 (2023). 

[58 ] T. Kontos, M. Aprili, J. Lesueur, F. Gen êt, B. Stephanidis, and R. Boursier ,

“Josephson Junction through a Thin Ferromagnetic Layer: Negative Coupling ”, Phys. 

Rev. Lett. 89, 137007 (2002). 

[59 ] V. A. Oboznov, V.V. Bol’ginov, A. K. Feofanov, V.V. Ryazanov, and A. I. Buzdin ,

“Thickness Dependence of the Josephson Ground States  of Superconductor -

Ferromagnet -Superconductor Junctions ”, Phys. Rev. Lett. 96, 197003 (2006). 

[60] A. S. Vasenko, A. A. Golubov, M. Y. Kupriyanov, and M. Weides , “Properties of 

tunnel Josephson junctions with a ferromagnetic interlayer ”, Phys. Rev. B 77, 134507 

(2008). 

Data  availability 

The main data that support  the findings of this study are available in this article and its 

Supplementary Information. Additional data are available from the corresponding author 

upon request. 14 

Acknowledgments 

This work was supported in part by the Grants -in -Aid for Scientific Research  (19K21961, 

20H05650, 22K18293, 23K17324, 24H00018, and 25H00840) , the  CREST program 

(JPMJCR1777) , NEXUS program of JST , and the Spintronics Research Network of Japan 

(Spin -RNJ).  HH thanks financial support from  Hirose  Foundation, Marubun  Research 

Promotion F oundation , and  Overseas Training Program  of the  School of Engineering, the 

University of Tokyo , which enabled his visit to and experiments at the Shabani Laboratory 

at New York University .

Author contributions 

H.H. and L.B. conceptualized the study, led the experiments, analyzed the data, and 

prepared the initial draft.  A.L., S.M., K.I., M.M., P. J. S., and J.I. grew the samples, 

fabricated the devices, performed low -temperature measurements, and analyzed the data. 

M.T., J.S., and L.D.A. supervised the experiments, contributed to data discussions, and 

revised the manuscript. All authors discussed the  results and provided comments on the 

manuscript. 

Competing interests 

The authors declare no competing interests. 15 

Figure 1.  Conceptual illustration of this study. Proximity -induced superconductivity and 

ferromagnetism are introduced into the InAs semiconductor layer from the adjacent 

overgrown  superconducting Al  electrodes  and  underlying  Fe -doped  FMS  (Ga,Fe)Sb layer, 

respectively. Owing to the semiconduct or  nature of InAs, both the proximit ise d

superconductivity and the magnetic proximity effect are  controlled by applying a gate 

voltage .16 

Fig ure  2. (a)  Schematic s tructure of the sample used in this study. (b), (c)  Cross -sectional 

transmission electron microscopy  lattice  images of the  Al  / (In,Ga)As  / InAs  / FMS 

(Ga,Fe)Sb  heterostructure with the incident direction  along the  [110]  axis  of the GaAs 

(001)  substrate. The semiconductor layers  are  grow n in  the (001) orientation with a zinc -

blende -type  crystal  structure, while the Al layer  is  grow n in  the (111) orientation with a 

face -centered cubic  crystal  structure. (d) Magnetotransport of the InAs  channel  under a 

perpendicular magnetic field at 3.7 K. The resistance of InAs was measured by the  Van 

der Pauw method using a cleaved 5 mm × 5 mm piece. Blue and green curves represent 

the resistance with current applied along the [110] and  [1̅10] crystal  axes , respectively, 

while the red curve shows the Hall resistance. (e) Magnetic properties of the (Ga,Fe)Sb 

layer  obtained by MCD and SQUID measurements. MCD measurements were performed 

at the  critical point  energy  E1 = 2.15 eV  of  GaSb . MCD and SQUID results show good 

agreement at 5 K. 17 

Fig ure  3. (a) Lateral Josephson junction device with  a top  gat e electrode  examined  in this 

study.  DC m easurement setup is also shown.  The junction length  L and width  W are  100 

nm and 5  μm, respectively.  (b) Scanning electron microscopy image of a junction device 

without a gate. The junction length is estimated to be ~100 nm at the longest part between 

the two Al electrodes. (c) Current dependence of the junction voltage  (V – I characteristic) 

in a device without a gate at 30 mK. The dotted line represents interpolation from high -

bias data using  V = R N(I ± I ex ). (d) Voltage dependence of  dI/ dV calculated from (c). The 

peak positions  Vₙ  correspond to multiple Andreev reflections, following  Vn = 2 Δ/ne. Peaks 

at  n = ±1 are  relatively broad and were fitted with Gaussian functions to estimate their 

positions. (e) Relation between  the  dI/ dV peak voltages  Vₙ  and the inverse reflection order 

1/ n, extracted from (d). (f) Dependence of  the  junction resistance  dV/dI on  the  gate 

voltage  Vg and bias current  I. The current  I was swept from negative to positive bias. 18 

Fig ure  4. (a), (b) Differential resistance of the junction without a gate as a function of 

magnetic field  B and current bias  I. Black arrows indicate the sweep ing  directions of  B,

and  Bini  denotes the initial field applied before sweeping. (c) Fine -field dependence of the 

critical current  Ic and diode efficiency  η. Bshift  corresponds to the field at which the 

maximum critical current is observed in the measurement setup of (a). No initial field was 

applied in this measurement. In all panels, the magnetic field is applied perpendicular to 

the junction plane . (d)  Spatial distribution of the supercurrent density  j flowing through 

the junction obtained by FFT analysis of the data shown in (c). T he lateral axis position  y

(//  [1̅10] ) shown in (e)  corresponds to the in -plane direction perpendicular to the flowing 

current.  (e) A schematic Josephson junction image without a gate with the definition of 

coordinate axes. The origin is set as the center position of the junction. 19 

Fig ure  5. (a) -(d) Differential resistance of the gated junction as a function of  the  magnetic 

field  B and current bias  I. Black arrows indicate the sweep ing  directions of  B, and  Bini 

denotes the initial field applied before sweeping. (a)  and  (b) were measured at  Vg = 0 V, 

while (c)  and  (d) were measured at  Vg = −10 V. (e) Critical current  Ic as a function of  the 

magnetic field  B and gate voltage  Vg. (f) Dependence of  the  normal ise d critical current  Ic

and carrier concentration  n on  the  gate voltage  Vg, normal ise d by their respective 

saturation values.  Ic peak 1  is obtained  at p eak 1  from the field range −1.6 to −0.7 mT, 

and  Ic peak 2  is obtained at p eak 2 from −0.6 to 0 mT in (e). The sky -blue dashed line 

represents an exponential fit provided as a guide to the eye .20 

# Supplementa ry  Material 

# Interplay of superconductivity and ferromagnetism  in  ferromagnetic -

# semiconductor -based Josephson junction s

Hirotaka Hara 1* , Lukas Baker 2*, Axel Leblanc 2, Shingen Miura 1, Keita Ishihara 1,

Melissa Mikalsen 2, Patrick  J.  Strohbeen 2, Jacob Issokson 2, Masaaki Tanaka 1,3,4 ,

Javad Shabani 2, †, and Le Duc Anh 1,3 ,† 

> 1

Dep ar tment  of Electrical Engineering and Information Systems, The University of Tokyo,  Tokyo, 

Japan  

> 2

Center for Quantum Information Physics , New York University , New York , USA  

> 3

Center for Spintronics Research Network, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan  

> 4

Institute for Nano Quantum Information Electronics, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan 

* These authors contribute equally to this work. 

> †

Corresponding author:  anh@cryst.t.u -tokyo.ac.jp , jshabani@nyu.edu 21 

Superconducting Al thin film properties  grown  on an InAs/(Ga,Fe)Sb 

heterostructure 

The growth of superconducting Al thin films on ferromagnetic semiconductor 

(FMS) heterostructures has not yet been well established , therefore, the properties of Al 

should be carefully examined. Figure S1(a) shows the X -ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of 

the sample structure presented in Fig.  2(a). Distinct zinc -blende –type GaAs (004) and 

AlSb (004) peaks are observed at 2 θ = 66.07°  and 60.12°, respectively. The  smaller peak 

around 61.2° is likely attributable to (Ga,Fe)Sb and InAs. In addition, a face -center ed 

cubic Al (111) peak appears at 38.5°, consistent with the growth orientation identified in 

the TEM image in Fig.  2(c). 

Figures S1(b) and  (c) show the electrical transport properties of the Al thin film 

for  evaluat ion of  its superconductivity. Figure S1(b) presents the temperature dependence 

of the Al resistance, which exhibits a sharp drop at 1.30 K, reaching nearly zero below 

this temperature. The resistance data shows slight noise, possibly due to measurements 

during the cooling process. From the transition temperature  Tc = 1.30 K, the 

superconducting gap is estimated as  Δ0 = 1.76  kBTc = 196  μeV, which agrees well with 

th e value obtained from multiple Andreev reflections in the main text. Figure S1(c) shows 

the magnetic  field dependence of the Al resistance, measured with an in -plane field 

aligned along the [ 1̅10] direction of the GaAs  (001)  substrate. The critical field  Bc = 1.16 

T is comparable to previously reported values [S1]. These results confirm that the Al layer 

in our sample  maintains suitable superconducting properties for observing the proximity 

effect, even when grown on the FMS heterostructure. 

Fig. S1  (a)  θ–2θ X-ray diffraction scan of the sample structure shown in Fig.  2(a). (b) 

Temperature dependence of the Al resistance measured with a current of 100 nA. (c) 

Magnetic  field dependence of the Al resistance. The magnetic field was applied in -plane 

along the [ 1̅10] direction of the GaAs  (001)  substrate. The measurement current was 10 

μA, and the temperature was 110 mK. 22 

Ferromagnetic properties and calculated stray field  generated by  (Ga,Fe)Sb 

The ferromagnetism of  the  (Ga,Fe)Sb  layer in our sample  was evaluated using 

two techniques , magnetic circular dichroism (MCD) and superconducting quantum 

interference device (SQUID) magnetometry. Figure S2(a) shows the MCD spectra of 

(Ga,Fe)Sb measured at 5 K. All spectra obtained under magnetic fields of 1, 0.5, and 0.2 

T exhibit identical spec tral features at the  critical point  energies  E₁ and  E₁ + Δ₁  of  GaSb ,

with no additional peaks. This indicates that the ferromagnetism originates intrinsically 

from the  zinc -blende -type  (Ga,Fe)S b rather than from Fe clusters or secondary Fe -

containing compounds. 

Figure S2(b) presents an Arrott plot derived from Fig.  2(e), which is an effective 

method for estimating the Curie temperature  TC from magnetic hysteresis loops [S2]. A 

positive (negative) intercept of the linear fit corresponds to a ferromagnetic 

(paramagnetic) state. The intercept crosses the origin at 25 K, indicating that  TC of 

(Ga,Fe)Sb in this sample is 25 K. This value is lower than those reported in previous 

studies [S3], likely due to non -optimal growth conditions, as the magnetic properties of 

FMS s grown by low -temperature MBE are highly sensitive to flux ratios, substrate 

temperature, and other growth parameters. 

Figure S2(c) shows an enlarged hysteresis loop of (Ga,Fe)Sb measured by 

SQUID (also shown in Fig.  2(e)), exhibiting a remanent magnet isation  of approximately 

15 emu/cm 3. Using this magnet isation  value, the stray magnetic field generated by the 

(Ga,Fe)Sb layer was calculated at the center of the InAs layer, as shown in Fig. S2(d), to 

understand its influence on the Josephson junction behav iour  under magnetic fields. The 

calculation was performed based on Maxwell’s equations as described in Ref. [S4]. The 

(Ga ,Fe)Sb layer was modeled with dimensions of 30  μm × 5  μm × 20 nm, corresponding 

to the size of the central electrode in the Josephson junction device. The magnet isation 

was assumed to be uniaxial and oriented perpendicular to the plane. The calculated results, 

shown in Fig. S2(e), indicate that the stray field at the InAs layer generated by (Ga,Fe)Sb 

is  perpendicular to the plane  and  on the order of 0.01 –0.1 mT near zero external field. 

Even when the flux  focusing effect arising from the Meissner response of the 

superconducting electrodes is taken into account, this stray field alone cannot fully 

explain the magnetic -field positions of the critical -current peaks observed in the 

Fraunhofer patterns of our ju nction devices  (Fig. 4 (a) and (b)) , as discussed in the next 

section. Nonetheless, the calculated stray field may offer some indication of how 

magnetic fields influence the superconducting channel. 23 

Fig. S2  (a) MCD spectra of (Ga,Fe)Sb measured at 5 K under external magnetic fields of 

1, 0.5, and 0.2 T  applied perpendicular to the film plane . (b) Arrott plot of (Ga,Fe)Sb 

obtained at the photon energy  E₁  = 2.15 eV. (c) Magnetic hysteresis of (Ga,Fe)Sb 

measured by SQUID at 5 K  when a magnetic field is applied perpendicular to the film 

plane . (d) Schematic geometry used for calculating the stray magnetic field from 

(Ga,Fe)Sb at the InAs layer. (e) Calculated stray -field magnitude  at the position indicated 

in  (d)  as a function of  the perpendicular  magnet isation  of the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer .

Discussion about  the  magnetic field  where  the  critical current  reaches  maximum in 

Fraunhofer patterns 

To further understand  the  Fraunhofer interference  observed  in  the  FMS -based 

Josephson  junctions  (JJs) , it is necessary to examine the magnetic field at which the 

maximum critical current occurs, denoted  Bshift  in Fig.  4(c). Notably, clear differences 

appear between Figs.  4 and  5. In Fig.  4, the ungated junction shows its maximum critical 

current at a field aligned with the initial field, with a magnitude of ~0.4 mT. In contrast, 

the gated junction (Fig.  5) exhibits  the  maximum  of  Ic at a  magnetic  field opposite to the 

initial direction, with a magnitude of ~1 mT. This discrepancy raises  an  unresolved 

question of what determines the peak positions in the Fraunhofer patterns. Considering 

the device structure and the possible presence of edge currents, variations in current 

distribution —potentially arising from differences in  the  surface conditions of the 24 

junction —may shift the fields at which the critical current peaks appear. Regarding the 

magnetic properties of (Ga,Fe)Sb, its coercive field is ~20 mT, which cannot account for 

the observed peak fields. However, the stray field of (Ga,Fe)Sb at the InAs lay er  with 

considering flux focusing effect in JJs  is calculated to be on the order of  0.1  mT  (Fig. 

S2(e) ), comparable  but slightly less  than  the peak  position s (~ 1 mT) observed in Fig.  5

(a) -(e). To fully understand the  magnetic  field dependence of the critical  current peaks ,

further investigation  is necessary  through both experimental studies and numerical 

simulations. 

Comparison of gate -voltage dependences of the Josephson critical current and Hall -

bar carrier density 

Figure S3(a) shows the gate  voltage dependence of the critical current  Ic in the 

gated Josephson junction  (JJ) . The blue data points are extracted from the  V−I

measurements shown in Fig.  3(f) before applying a magnetic field, while the green points 

correspond to the maximum  Ic values obtained from the Fraunhofer patterns. No  Ic data 

are available between −10 and 0 V from the Fraunhofer measurements due to the 

measurement procedure ; however, we assume that the  Ic obtained from the  V−I data 

before  applying magnetic  field corresponds to the maximum  Ic in the Fraunhofer patterns. 

Indeed, the blue and green data connect smoothly, and these combined data are referred 

to as  peak 1 in Fig.  5(e), (f)  in the main text. The junction exhibits a decrease in  Ic with 

in creasing  the negative  gate voltage  (Vg, JJ ), with saturation observed above 0 V and 

around −25 V. 

Meanwhile , Fig. S3(b) shows the gate  voltage  (Vg,  Hall ) dependence of the 

electron  carrier density  n measured at 5 K using a gated Hall  bar device with a conduction 

path of 200  μm × 50  μm.  n decreases with decreasing  the  gate voltage and nearly saturates 

above 10 V and around −30 V, following the same overall trend as in Fig. S3(a). Therefore, 

the decay ratios of  Ic and  n are compared in Fig.  5(f) within the gate  voltage range where 

both quantities decrease. The difference in the voltage ranges  showing  the decay of  Ic

(−25 to 0 V) and  n (−30 to 10 V) may arise from structural differences between the two 

devices , specifically, the gate -oxide thicknesses (40 nm Al₂O₃ in the  JJ  device and 100 

nm in the Hall -bar device)  which were  fabricated by different machines  or the presence 

of Al  superconducting electrodes  in the junction.  Thus, we compare  the gate -voltage 

dependence of  Ic and  n by normalizing the gate voltage range where both the parameters 

are  effectively tune d. The  good  agreement between the decay ratios of  Ic and  n likely 

suggests that the maximum  Ic is approximately proportional to  n.25 

Fig. S3 (a)  Gate  voltage  (Vg) dependence of the critical current  Ic in the Josephson junction, 

obtained from  V-I measurements before applying an external magnetic field  (blue points) 

and from the maximum values of  Ic in  the Fraunhofer patterns  (green points) . (b) Gate 

voltage dependence of the  electron  carrier density  n measured in a Hall  bar device at 5 K 

with a measurement current of 1  μA. 

Fourier -trans formation  of the Fraunhofer pattern 

Analyzing a Fraunhofer interference pattern provides key insights into the 

Josephson junction, such as the effective area where the supercurrent flows and the spatial 

distribution of  the  supercurrent density obtained by fast Fourier transformation (FFT). 

Figure S4(a) shows the magnetic  field dependence of the absolute value of the critical 

current | Ic| in the same junction as in Fig.  4(c). By comparing  Ic+ (red points) and  Ic− (blue 

points), a clearly skewed Fraunhofer pattern is observed, which approximate ly satisfies 

Ic+(+ B) ≈  Ic−(− B), Ic+(+ B) ≠ Ic+(− B), and  Ic+(+ B) ≠ Ic−(+ B).

The solid curve in Fig. S4(a) represents a fit using the conventional Fraunhofer 

interference expression  Ic(B) =  I0 |sin( πx)/( πx)|, where  x = Γ (B−Bshift ) S / Φ0. Here,  Γ is a 

fitting parameter known as the flux  focusing coefficient ( Γ = 6.2),  and  S is the effective 

junction area penetrated by  the  magnetic flux, calculated as  S = W × (L + 2 LAl ),  where  W

= 5 μ m is the junction width,  L = 100 nm is the junction length, and  LAl  = 190 nm is the 

magnetic penetration  length  into the Al electrodes. The value of  LAl  was obtained 

following the method described in Ref. [S5], using  λ = λL(0) (1 +  ξ/d)1/2  and  ξthin  =

ξbulk (Tc,thin /Tc,bulk ),  where the parameters are  as follows : bulk penetration depth  λL(0) = 16 

nm, film thickness  d = 10 nm, bulk coherence length  ξbulk  = 1.6  μm, experimental  Tc,thin  =

1.3 K, and bulk  Tc,bulk  = 1.2 K [S6 ][ S7]. The large flux  focusing coefficient  (Γ = 6.2) 

indicates that the effective magnetic field in the junction area is approximately six times 

the external field, likely due to flux concentration arising from the Meissner effect of the 

Al electrodes and the stray field from the (Ga,Fe)Sb layer. 

The supercurrent density distribution in the junction was then calculated by 26 

performing a FFT on the data in Fig. S4(a). The coordinate system is defined as follows ,

x is the current direction,  y is the in -plane axis perpendicular to  x, and  z is the 

perpendicular  direction, as illustrated in Fig.  4(e). 

The critical current can be expressed as  Ic(Γβ),  where  β = 2 π (B−Bshift ) (L+2 LAl )

/ Φ0. For the FFT analysis,  Ic(Γβ)  is treated as a complex function  F(Γβ),  satisfying  Ic(Γβ) 

= | F(Γβ)|.  When  Ic(Γβ)  is approximately even with respect to  β,  it can be written as  F(Γβ)

= Ic, even (Γβ) +  iIc, odd (Γβ),  where  Ic,even  and  Ic,odd  are the even and odd components of  Ic(Γβ), 

respectively.  The position  dependent current density  j(y) can then be calculated as  j(y) = 

Γ/(2 π) ∙ |∫dβ F(Γβ) e−iΓβy|, considering the flux focusing coefficient . The detailed FFT 

procedure follows Ref. [S8 ].

The resulting current -density map, shown in Fig.  4(d), reveals that the  Ic+ and  Ic−

components in Fig. S4(a) are concentrated near the junction edges,  meaningfully larger 

than  the FFT result derived from the ideal Fraunhofer fit. This suggests the presence of 

conduction channels local ise d at th e two  edges  of InAs in the junction . The fitted current -

density distribution shows a slightly reduced supercurrent density  in  the junction center, 

likely due to the limited magnetic  field range used in the measurement to avoid flux jumps 

during field sweeps. 

Fig. S4  (a) Magnetic  field dependence of the absolute critical current for opposite current 

directions through the  Josephson  junction device. The dashed line represents a fit to both 

Ic+ and  Ic− using the conventional Fraunhofer interference expression. 

In -plane magnetic field dependence of Fraunhofer patterns 

We  also  investigated the dependence of the Fraunhofer patterns on in -plane 

magnetic fields in the gated Josephson junction  to check whether it is a  π-junction .

Reentrant superconductivity could appear if the junction  were to  exhibit  π-junction 

behavio ur [S9 ]-[S12] . For clarity in defining the directions of the applied magnetic fields, 

a schematic of the gated Josephson junction device and the coordinate axes is shown again 27 

in Fig. S5(a).  Figure S5( b) shows the critical current  Ic as a function of  the  in -plane 

magnetic field (parallel to the current) and perpendicular magnetic field, while Fig. S5( d)

presents  Ic as a function of  the  in -plane magnetic field (perpendicular to the current) and 

perpendicular magnetic field. To clearly visual ise  the maximum  Ic, the normal ise d Ic

values for each in -plane field are  represented  in Figs. S5( c) and S5( e).  The perpendicular 

magnetic field corresponding to the  Ic maximum is not stable but fluctuates with the in -

plane field , rather than exhibiti ng clear reentrant superconductivity at a fixed 

perpendicular field . The fl uctuation of the  Ic maximum is  not  likely due to field 

misalignment,  because  the fluctuations  are  not linear with applied field, and is  not  likely 

due to measurement instability or noise ; variations in magnetic field taking  Ic maximum 

is only 0.2mT, which is much smaller than the observed fluctuations , with multiple scans 

(5 times) at one in -plane magnetic field . Although the origin of these fluctuations remains 

unclear, this behav iour  possibly  represent s a feature of Josephson junctions based on  FMS 

heterostructures. 28 

Fig. S5  (a ) Schematic  illustration  of a gated Josephson  junction  examined in this study 

and the definition of  coordinate  axes  x, y, and  z. (b) Dependence of the critical current  Ic

on the in -plane ( x) and perpendicular ( z) magnetic fields. ( c) Normal ise d Ic for each in -

plane magnetic field  Bₓ from ( b). ( d) Dependence of  Ic on the in -plane ( y) and 

perpendicular ( z) magnetic fields. ( e) Normal ise d Ic for each in -plane magnetic field  By

from ( d). Black arrows indicate the sweep directions of the perpendicular magnetic field. 29 

References 

[S1 ] J. Shabani , M. Kjaergaard, H. J. Suominen, Younghyun Kim, F. Nichele, K. 

Pakrouski, T. Stankevic, R. M. Lutchyn,  P. Krogstrup, R. Feidenhans’l , S. Kraemer, C. 

Nayak, M. Troyer, C. M. Marcus, and C. J. Palmstrøm,  “Two -dimensional epitaxial 

superconductor -semiconductor heterostructures:  A platform for topological 

superconducting networks ”, Phys. Rev. B 93, 155402 (2016). 

[S2] A. Arrott,  “Criterion for Ferromagnetism from Observations of Magnetic Isotherms ”,

Phys. Rev. 108, 1394 -1396 (1957). 

[S3]  N. T. Tu, P . N. Hai, L . D. Anh , and M . Tanaka , “Magnetic properties and intrinsic 

ferromagnetism in (Ga,Fe )Sb ferromagnetic semiconductors ”, Phys. Rev. B 92, 144403 

(2015). 

[S4] R. E. -Herbert, and T. Hesjedal,  “Calculation of the magnetic stray field of a uniaxial 

magnetic domain ”, J. Appl. Phys. 97, 074504 (2005). 

[S5]  H. J. Suominen, J. Danon, M. Kjaergaard, K. Flensberg, J. Shabani, C. J. Palmstrøm, 

F. Nichele, and C. M. Marcus , “Anomalous Fraunhofer interference in epitaxial 

superconductor -semiconductor  Josephson junctions ”, Phys. Rev. B 95, 035307 (2017). 

[S6]  M. Tinkham,  Introduction to Superconductivity , 2 ed., Dover  Books on Physics 

(Dover, New York, 2004). 

[S7]  R. Merservey and B. B. Schwartz, in  Superconductivity , edited  by R. D. Parks 

(Marcel Dekker, New York, 1969), Vol. 1, p. 126. 

[S8]  R. C. Dynes, and D. A. Fulton,  “Supercurrent Density Distribution in Josephson 

Junctions ”, Phys. Rev. B 3, 3015 -3023 (1971). 

[S9]  S. Hart, H . Ren, M . Kosowsky, G . B.-Shach, P . Leubner, C . Brüne,  H. Buhmann, L .

W. Molenkamp, B . I. Halperin1 , and A . Yacoby , “Controlled finite momentum pairing 

and spatially  varying order parameter in proximitized HgTe  quantum wells” , Nature Phys. 

13, 87 -93 (2017). 

[S10 ] C. T. Ke, C . M. Moehle, F . K. Vries, C . Thomas, S . Metti,  C.  R. Guinn, R . Kallaher, 

M. Lodari, G . Scappucci, T . Wang, R . E. Diaz,  G. C. Gardner, M . J. Manfra , and  S.

Goswami , “Ballistic superconductivity and tunable  π–junctions  in InSb quantum wells” ,

Nature Commun. 10, 3764 (2019). 

[S11 ] D. Z. Haxell, M . Coraiola, D . Sabonis, M . Hinderling, S . C. t . Kate, E . Cheah,  F.

Krizek, R . Schott, W . Wegscheider, and Fabrizio Nichele , “Zeeman - and Orbital -Driven 

Phase Shifts in Planar Josephson Junctions” , ACS Nano 17,  18139 -18147  (2023 ).

[S12 ] P. Mandal, S . Mondal, M . P. Stehno, S . Ili ć,  F. S . Bergeret, T . M. Klapwijk, C .

Gould , and  L. W. Molenkamp , “Magnetically tunable supercurrent in dilute  magnetic 

topological insulator -based  Josephson junctions” , Nature Phys. 20, 984 -990 (2024).