Title: 2603.12196v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.12196v1

Published Time: Fri, 13 Mar 2026 01:15:30 GMT

Number of Pages: 22

Markdown Content:
> 1/22

# A superconducting half -dome in bilayer nickelate s

Yidi Liu 1,2* †, Bai Yang Wang 1,3* ‡, Jiarui Li 1,3 , Yaoju Tarn 1,3 , Lopa Bhatt 4, Michael Colletta 4, Yi -Ming Wu 1, 2,

Cheng -Tai Kuo 5, Jun -Sik Lee 5, Berit H. Goodge 6, David A. Muller 4, 7, Zhi -Xun Shen 1,2,3 ,8 , Srinivas Raghu 1, 2,8 ,

Harold Y. Hwang 1,3 ,8 §, and Yijun Yu 1,3 ,9¶

> 1

Stanford Institute for Materials and Energy Sciences, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, CA 94025, 

USA 

> 2

Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA 

> 3

Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA 

> 4

School of Applied and Engineering Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14850, USA 

> 5

Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Menlo Park, CA, USA 

> 6

Max Planck Institute for Chemical Physics of Solids, 01187 Dresden, Germany 

> 7

Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Technology, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14850, USA 

> 8

Geballe Laboratory for Advanced Materials, Stanford University, Stanford CA, USA  

> 9

State Key Laboratory of Surface Physics and Department of Physics, Fudan University , Shanghai, China 

> *

These authors contributed equally to this work 

> †

Contact Author : yidi l@stanford.edu 

> ‡

Contact Author: bwang87@stanford.edu 

> §

Contact Author: hyhwang@stanford.edu 

> ¶

Contact Author: yuyijun@ fudan.edu.cn 

Understanding how superconductivity emerges and collapses in correlated electron systems remains a central 

challenge in condensed matter physics. As a recently discovered member of the high temperature superconductor 

family, bilayer nickelate s provide a new opportunity for examining this problem. Their pronounced sensitivity to 

oxygen stoichiometry , while posing challenges for stabilizing superconductivity, simultaneously offers an effective 

control parameter for tuning electronic phases. Here we report a superconducting half -dome in compressively strained 

bilayer nickelate thin film s as a function of continuous tuning of oxygen stoichiometry . Starting from an optimal ly 

superconducting state, increasing oxygen stoichiometry gradually suppresses superconductivity toward a metallic 

phase , whereas decreasing oxygen stoichiometry drives a granular superconductor -to -insulator transition while 

leaving the superconducting onset intact . This half -dome structure can be understood to arise from the contrasting 

roles played by interstitial oxygen versus oxygen vacancies – namely the dominance of doping versus scattering .

Notably, the half -dome emerges consistently across samples with different rare -earth combinations, with or without 

alkaline -earth doping, revealing a general feature of the bilayer nickelate phase diagram. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Establishing a generic phase diagram has been 

central in the study of high temperature 

superconductors across various materials 

families [1,2] . Such diagrams uncover the interplay 

between competing ground states , provide a unifying 

framework connect ing disparate experimental 

observations, and guide the understanding of 

material s-related parameters. Comparing phase 

diagrams across different superconduct ing families 

further highlight s universal features of high 

temperature superconductivity. Such an endeavor is 

now underway in the bilayer nickelates. 

Since the discovery of superconductivity in bulk 

and thin film bilayer nickelates [3 –7] , their 

superconducti ng phase diagram has been explored 

along various dimensions including pressure [3 –5,8 –

11] , strain [6,7,12 –15] , oxygen stoichiometry [16 –20] ,

and substitutional hole doping [21] . For bulk samples, 

superconductivity is found to be b roadly robust to 

variations in pressure above a threshold value, yet 

sensitive to oxygen off -stoichiometry [22 –26] and 

crystal symmetry [27] . In thin films, a hole -doping -

dependent superconducting dome is reported, with the 

optimal superconductivity transition temperature (Tc)

observed at a finite doping level [21] .

Superconductivity in thin film s is also seen to 

positively correlate with compressive epitaxial 

strain [15] and pressure [14] .

Bridging these disparate , partial phase diagrams and 

constructing a coherent view of superconductivity in 

bilayer nickelate s is a high priority. Our work is 

motivated to unify aspects of the high -dimensional 

phase space of strain (or pressure), substitutional (Ca) 

hole doping, and oxygen stoichiometry. By examining 

thin film bilayer nickelates systematically across 

oxygen stoichiometry and substitutional doping, we 

find a universal superconducting half -dome , governed 

by oxygen stoichiometry in samples across different 

chemical doping level s, as summarized in Fig. 1.

Oxygen stoichiometry exhibits two qualitatively 

distinct manifestations in bilayer nickelates. Excess 2 / 22 

oxygen predominantly acts as an electronic tuning 

parameter, modifying carrier density via interstitial 

doping while gradually weakening superconductivity .

In contrast, oxygen deficiency rapidly introduces 

strong scattering and electronic inhomogeneity, 

suppressing coherent metallic transport while 

preserving local superconducti ng fluctuations ,

consistent with granular superconductivity [28] . This 

pronounced asymmetry suggests that oxygen 

vacancies play a fundamentally different role from 

oxygen interstitials, reflecting the electronic fragility 

of the NiO 2 bilayer units, where apical and planar 

oxygen coordination is intimately tied to int er - and 

int ra -layer coupling. In the following we present the 

experimental results that establish this phase diagram. 

The starting point for this study is the realization 

that high crystallinity and oxygen stoichiometry are 

prerequisites for optim izing superconductivity in 

bilayer nickelate films [23] . Going beyond 

optimization , we see a trend in ozone -density [ w(O 3)] 

versus annealing -temperature ( Tanneal ) that systematic 

varies Tc, as shown in Fig. 2 (a). Notably, samples 

annealed closer to (but not beyond) the boundary 

between the bilayer phase and higher -order R P phases 

exhibit systematically reduced Tc, as reflected by the 

size of the filled circles (which is plotted proportional 

to Tc). We observe this trend in two different variations 

of bilayer nickelates, La 2PrNi 2O7+ δ (LPNO, Fig. 2(b))

and La 2SmNi 2O7+ δ (LSNO, Fig. 2(c)). We note that δ

may take either positive or negative values throughout 

this manuscript corresponding to oxygen excess or 

deficiency, respectively . Importantly , the reduction 

in Tc is not accompanied by a structural transformation 

into higher -order RP phases (Fig. S1). This provides 

strong evidence that superconductivity is also 

influenced by the evolution of oxygen stoichiometry 

within the stable bilayer phase ( a similar trend also 

observed in ref. [20] ). 

II. RESULTS 

A. Excess oxygen in metallic bilayer nickelate thin 

film s

While La 2NiO 4+ δ is known to accommodate 

interstitial excess oxygen [29] , initial studies of bulk 

bilayer nickelates reported a clear tendency toward 

apical oxygen vacancies [22,30] . Given that the 

bilayer nickelate structure incorporates both 

perovskite and rock -salt building blocks, it can host 

either oxygen deficiency or oxygen excess. Indeed, 

recent studies show evidence of interstitial oxygen for 

both bulk and thin film bilayer nickelates [24 –26,31] .

Thus , we deduce that the suppression of 

superconductivity in samples undergo ing more 

oxidizing ozone annealing condition s in Fig. 2 arise s

from excess oxygen intercalation. 

Directly probing oxygen content in thin films is 

challenging , and currently impossible at the required 

accuracy for these ultrathin films whose thickness is 

limited to the regime of coherent strain . Unlike bulk 

cuprates [32] or nickelates [10,11] , where 

thermogravimetric analysis or chemical titration can 

accurately determine the oxygen content , only a

limited set of techniques can be applied here ; we use 

spectroscopy to probe the evolution of the oxygen 

stoichiometry by comparison to bulk data .

First, we establish a correspondence between an 

optimally superconducting LPNO film (identified 

through transport) and its oxygen stoichiometry. 

Specifically , ‘ optimally superconducting ’ refers to 

samples with Tc,onset > 40 K and a narrow transition 

width (i.e. Tc,90% - Tc,10% < 10 K; the various criteria 

used to define Tc throughout the manuscript are 

illustrated in Fig. S2) just after ozone annealing. 

Electron energy -loss spectroscopy (EELS ) was 

performed on such a n LPNO sample for comparison 

to bulk reference data correlating the O K-edge pre -

peak intensity with oxygen stoichiometry [22,25] (Fig. 

3(a)). The specimen was prepared by cryogenic 

focused ion beam (cryo -FIB) to eliminate processing -

induced modification of the oxygen stoichiometry (see 

Methods) , and spectr a were spatially averaged over 

the bottom half of the film to exclude measurements 

of possible oxygen loss near the surface . The measured 

pre -peak intensity aligns with the δ ≈ 0 reference bulk 

sample (Fig. 3(a)), indicating that optimally 

superconducting sample s are (spectroscopically) very 

similar to the stoichiometr ic composition La 2PrNi 2O7.

By analogy, we infer that s toichiometr ic La 2SmNi 2O7

sample s also possess optimal superconducting 

propert ies, given that the optimal superconducting 

LSNO films have similar metrics of Tc and Hall 

coefficient (RH) to those of the LPNO counterparts. 

Next, we exam ine the X-ray absorption spectra 

(XAS) of samples subjected to different oxygen -

treatment conditions , which show different transport 

behavior s. In Fig. 3(b), three LSNO samples are 

shown: an insulating sample (as -grown, oxygen -

deficient), an optimally superconducting sample 

(stoichiometric , as argued above ), and a non -

superconducting metallic sample (after ozone 

annealing near the phase boundary in Fig. 2(a),

oxygen -rich). Ni L2-edge XAS evolves from the Ni 2+ -

like spectrum in the oxygen -deficient sample to more 

Ni 3+ -like spectrum in the oxygen -rich sample (Fig. 

3(c)), consistent with expectation s from formal 

electron counting . This trend is further illustrated by O

K-edge XAS spectra in Fig. 3(d), where the oxygen 

pre -peak intensity increases from the insulating 

sample to the optimally superconducting sample and 

finally to the non -superconducting metallic sample, 

indicating a systematic increase in oxygen content .

Such changes in oxygen stoichiometry are also 3 / 22 

accompanied by subtle structural changes , including a

slight difference in the c-lattice constant. However, 

conflicting reports of the c-dependence on oxygen 

stoichiometry exist in the literature for both bulk and 

thin films . A detailed discussion is in Fig . S3.

Before closing this section, several observations are 

noteworthy: (i) Similar to bulk results [11] , LSNO 

films consistently exhibit better crystallinity than 

LPNO. (ii) This, in turn, allows LSNO films to 

approach the phase boundary more closely without 

transforming into mixed higher -order RP phases and, 

as a result, these specimens intercalate more oxygen 

and exhibit a lower Tc as shown in Fig. 2(b) -(c) . In the 

extreme cases, superconductivity disappears. (iii) A 

lower residual resistance ratio (RRR, defined as 

ρ(200K )/ ρ(60K )) is observed in samples with lower Tc,

suggesting slightly increased scatteri ng. 

B. Evolution of superconductivity with oxygen 

stoichiometry in LSNO 

Having benchmarked oxygen stoichiometry for 

discrete samples spanning the endpoints of metallic 

and insulating behavior, we examine the evolution of 

a single sample under continuous (and reversible, see 

Fig. S4) tuning of oxygen stoichiometry between these 

endpoints . Beginning from the state with the highest 

excess oxygen, stepwise vacuum annealing (see 

Appendix ) reveals a two -stage evolution of transport 

behavior. In the first stage (Stage I, Fig. 4(a)), the 

gradual removal of oxygen induces superconductivity 

from a non -superconducting metallic ground state. 

Further remov al of oxygen (Stage II, Fig. 4(b)) rapidly 

increases resistivity and eventually drives the system 

through a superconductor -insulator transition 

(SIT) [16,17,19] , while the resistivity drop at Tc,onset 

remains robust . By aligning the ρ(T) curves of the 

three LSNO samples in Fig. 3(b) (red, green, and blue )

with those of the same sample measured at the 

beginning and end of S tage I and II in Fig. 4(a)-(b)

(also red, green, and blue , respectively), a clear 

correspondence emerges: the stoichiometric point 

delineates the crossover between the two stages. 

Plotting the conductivity at 200 K, σ(200 K) , against 

the cumulative annealing time tanneal (Fig. 4(d); the x-

axis is reversed so positive δ appears on the right) 

further highlights a distinct crossover separating the 

two stages : σ(200 K) decreases linearly with tanneal in 

Stage I, but switch es to a more rapid, exponential 

decay in Stage II . Since Δδ(tanneal ) ~ exp( -

ltanneal ) under 

surface -exchange -limited first -order kinetics [33,34] ,

tanneal serves as a smooth, monotonic proxy for δ (t o

leading order tanneal ~ -Δδ). T herefore , the two distinct 

stages observed in the transport evolution and σ(200 K) 

with tanneal can also be directly mapped to the evolution 

with δ. Interestingly, t he intersection of the two fitting 

functions for each stage in Fig. 4(d) coincides with the 

maximum RRR as a function of tanneal shown in Fig. 

4(c), offering a further indication of the mechanism 

gov erning the crossove r. 

A superconducting half -dome is clearly visible in 

the resistivity contour (Fig. 4(e)) and in the 

corresponding derivative contour (Fig. S5), where the 

x- and y-axis represent reversed tanneal (as a proxy for δ)

and temperature, respectively . The extracted Tc,onset 

and Tc,50% are overlaid on the contours. We use the 

term half -dome to indicate that on the oxygen -rich side 

both Tc,onset and Tc,50% decrease in tandem, whereas on 

the oxygen -deficient side Tc,onset remains nearly 

unchanged while Tc,50% collapses approaching the 

insulating state . The measurement with the highest 

Tc,1 0% (as a proxy for global phase coherence) across 

all annealing steps is marked as ‘optimized ’. We 

discuss the structure of this superconducting phase 

diagram in more detail below. 

In Stage I ( δ > 0), as δ increases from stoichiometr ic 

(δ ≈ 0) , the right sector of the superconductivity half -

dome evolves in a manner reminiscent of overdoped 

cuprates [35] , where both Tc,onset and Tc,50% decrease, 

shifting in parallel toward zero temperature while 

maintaining a similar transition width (from green to 

red curves in Fig. 4(a), see also Fig. 4(e)). When the 

excess oxygens occupy the interstitial sites between 

the rock -salt layers [24,25,31] , t he ir primary effect is 

to dop e the adjacent NiO 2 bilayers through a

‘modulation doping ’ mec hanism —analogous to 

doping by int erstitial oxygen in BSCCO [35,36] . This 

is supported by the Drude -like linear increase of σ(200 

K) with increasing δ (Fig. 4(d)). There is in addition 

(weak ) disorder, evidenced by the slight decrease in 

RRR with increasing δ (Fig. 4(c), also mentioned 

earlier when discussing Fig. 2(b) -(c) ). 

In Stage II ( δ < 0), as δ decreases from near 

stoichiometr ic (δ ≈ 0) , apical and/ or planar oxygen s

are removed [21,22] , thereby disrupting the structural 

continuity of the NiO 2 bilayer as an integral building 

block . In cuprates, oxygen vacan cies within CuO 2

planes are also known to be highly detrimental to 

superconductivity, primarily through the introduction 

of strong disorder [37] . Similar vacancy formation in 

nickelates is therefore expected to produce 

comparable deleterious effects. Moreover, vacancies 

at the apical oxygen sites —which are essential for 

maintaining interlayer coupling within the bilayer 

structure —have been proposed to be catastrophic for 

superconductivity [38,39] . Consistent ly , we see a

rapid increase of resistivity (from green to blue curves 

in Fig. 4(b)), an exponential decrease of σ(200 K) (Fig. 

4(d)), and a fast de crease in RRR (Fig. 4(c)). While 

Tc,onset remains constant or even slightly increases, Tc,50% 

abruptly drop s to zero (Fig. 4(e)), indicative of the 

onset of granular superconductivity [28] . This 

ultimately leads to an SIT : finite -size scaling analysis 4 / 22 

yields the critical exponents product zν = 2. 5,

consistent with the quantum percolation model and 

previous reports [16] (Fig. S6). 

In the Crossover region b etween Stage s I and II (δ

≈ 0), Tc remains nearly constant , with a slight increase 

as oxygen is removed. Due to entropy considerations 

and potential spatial inhomogeneity , oxygen vacancies 

likely start form ing before all interstitial oxygen s are 

completely removed. The peak in RRR can be 

naturally interpreted as a balance point where disorder 

from both oxygen vacancies and interstitial oxygen is 

minimized ; we therefore label this moment as 

‘balanced’ . Notably, in Fig. 4(c)-(e), th e tanneal for the 

‘balanced ’ point lies slightly on the oxygen -rich side 

of the ‘optimized ’ point . This offset can be understood 

by considering that oxygen vacancies introduce much 

stronger disorder, such that their influence outweighs 

the weaker effects of residual interstitial oxygen, 

effectively shifting the ‘balanced ’ point slightly 

toward the oxygen -rich side. 

Additional insight can be found in the evolution of 

the RH with tanneal or change of δ (Fig. 4(f)).

Positive [6,40] , near -zero [7,21] , and negative [20,23] 

RH values have been observed in superconducting 

bilayer nickelate thin films. A recent study also 

explored the evolution of oxygen -deficient 

regions [17] . Here, by precisely tuning δ from excess, 

to stoichiometric , and finally to a deficient regime, we 

reproduce all previously reported trends in RH—

spanning negative to near -zero to positive (see Fig. S7

for detailed compar is on with literature ). This complete 

evolution enables us to pinpoint the negative RH

corresponding to the optimally superconducting 

(stoichiometric) sample , as also observed in 

ref s. [20,23] . Another notable feature on the δ > 0 side 

is that RH reaches its negative minimum and then 

increases , c oincid ing with the point when reduction of 

Tc occurs (but not with the moment of maximum RRR) .

As discussed below , this minimum is observed during 

the change of δ in bilayer nickelate films with different 

substitutional doping, which provides a way to 

quantify the effect of δ.

C. Oxygen stoichiometry tuning in the presence of 

calcium doping 

Cuprates often exhibit similar phase diagrams upon 

carrier doping, whether achieved through alkaline -

earth substitution or interstitial oxygen intercalation ,

as exemplified by La 2-xSr xCuO 4 and La 2CuO 4+ δ

(ref. [41] ). An intriguing question is whether this 

correspondence also holds for bilayer nickelates , and 

the potential dual contributions to doping from both 

cation substitution and oxygen stoichiometry [42] . To 

address this , we performed extensive investigat ions of 

the oxygen -stoichiometry -dependent transport 

properties of La 2-xPr Ca xNi 2O7+ δ (LPCNO) with 

different Ca doping levels (x = 0, 0.165, 0.382, ρ(T)

shown in Fig . S8) and compared them with those of 

LSNO. 

Resistivity contour plots were constructed as in Fig. 

4 for each composition (Fig . 5). To enable a

meaningful comparison, however , tanneal is not a

suitable variable , as both the oxygen loss rate and 

absolute resistivity are composition and sample 

dependent , respectively . To address this, two 

normalization procedures were applied. (i) To 

compensate for differences in oxygen loss rates among 

samples ,

s(200 K) was used as a monotonic proxy for 

tanneal (Fig. 4(d)), and thus for δ. (ii) To correct for 

variations in absolute resistivity, previous studies on 

cuprates with varying oxygen stoichiometry 

renormalized σ(200 K) with respect to the optimally 

doped state, which serves as a natural reference 

point [36,43] . In the present case, however, such a 

well -defined anchor is absent. Instead, we found that 

the occurrence of an RH minimum during vacuum 

annealing is a robust and generic feature across all 

samples. Therefore, σ(200 K) was normalized to its 

value at the RH minimum . This procedure provides a 

reproducible reference frame for tracking the 

continuous evolution of transport properties with 

annealing .

Now w e present the contour map of resistivity ,

normalized to its value at 200 K, for the same LSNO 

sample from Fig. 4 , and three LPCNO samples at 

different doping levels (Fig. 5(a)-(d)) and the 

corresponding evolutions of RH (Fig. 5 (e)–(h)). To 

frame a more general discussion of the 

superconducting half -domes, we highlight f our key 

observations in Fig. 5. (i) the superconducting region 

consistently exhibits a half -dome -like structure as 

discussed earlier, indicating a similar underlying 

mechanism across changes in the oxygen 

stoichiometry. ( ii) the superconducting half -domes are 

less complete in L PC NO than those of LSNO. This is 

likely because ozone annealing near the phase 

boundary is less robust for LPCNO , as discussed 

previously in Fig. 2. Consequently, we reduced the 

scale of annealing compared to for LSNO, which in 

turn led to a narrower range of resistivity tuning via 

changing δ. We also note that the smaller ion size of 

Sm than Pr likely allow s for a higher concentration of 

interstitial oxygens. (iii) the right sector of the half -

dome becomes more complete with increasing Ca 

doping, which is consistent with higher initial hole 

doping. (iv) although determining the precise 

stoichiometric point is challenging in this system, we 

can use the ‘optimized’ (as well as the ‘balanced ’)

criteria introduced in Fig. 4, as an ansatz for the 

stoichiometric composition. If this assumption holds, 

the corresponding ‘optimized’ (‘balanced’ ) point on 

σ(200 K) norm axis should shift toward higher values 5 / 22 

with increasing Ca doping, which is indeed what is 

observed. 

D. General superconducting half -dome in bilayer 

nickelates 

The above observations imply that the interstitial 

oxygen plays a role analogous to Ca doping, as 

increasing either one driv es the system towards the 

right sector of the superconducting half -dome. Given 

that a doping level of 0.19 holes per Ni in the LPCNO 

sample almost fully suppresses superconductivity, we 

infer that δ > 0.19 in the non -superconducting metallic 

LSNO film, assuming each interstitial oxygen 

contributes two holes. This is roughly consistent with 

the bulk value of δ = 0.23, where superconductivity is 

completely suppressed even under pressure [25] .

Beyond this carrier -doping perspective, recent bulk 

studies have also shown that interstitial oxygen can 

distort the Ni –O bond angle, potentially suppressing 

superconductivity [24,25] . A similar mechanism may 

occur in our films; however, unlike in the bulk, where 

interstitial oxygen stabilizes an orthorhombic phase 

even under high pressure, epitaxial strain confines 

films to the tetragonal phase , with the associated 

interstitial oxygen occupancy configuration yet to be 

determined. 

Returning to Fig. 1, a gen eral phase diagram of 

samples with different compositions is p lotted against 

σ(200 K) norm and temperature . Tc,onset and the metal -

insulator transition temperature ( Tins , defined as the 

temperature at which ρ(T) reaches its minimum in the 

normal state ; see Fig. S8) are displayed for all samples 

with different compositions . For δ > 0, Tc,onset of all 

different compositions collapses onto a common curve ,

forming the right sector of a superconducting half -

dome. This indicates that this part of the half -dome 

represents a quasi -universal behavior of bilayer 

nickelates, irrespective of Ca doping . As discussed 

above , t he primary effect of Ca doping is to shift the 

stoichiometric point rightward in the phase diagram 

shown in Fig. 1. The collapse of the data also supports 

the validity of normalizing to σ(200 K) , as it self -

consistently indicates that the observed trend change 

in the Hall channel reflects an underlying generic 

behavior. We speculate that this feature may 

correspond either to a Lifshitz transition associated 

with the Fermi level cross ing of the 

g band upon hole 

doping , or to the onset of a structural transition upon 

oxygen intercalation [25] . The former interpretation 

appears broadly consistent with the scenario proposed 

in ref. [44] , although the precise correspondence 

remains to be clarified . On the left side, when δ < 0, a n

SIT emerges, but the critical point varies from sample 

to sample, reflecting differences in the disorder scale .

At fixed σ(200 K) norm , samples with higher Ca doping 

show higher Tins and lower RRR, both suggesting that 

Ca substitution introduces additional disorder (Fig. 

S8). While the occurrence of the SIT is a general 

feature, the critical σ(200 K) norm that triggers t he SIT 

is thus sample -dependent. 

III. DISCUSSION 

Overall, the robust half -dome -like evolution of Tc

points to an intrinsic asymmetry in the underlying 

physics, where oxygen interstitials predominantly act 

as dopants , whereas oxygen vacancies introduce 

strong disorder . This pronounced sensitivity of 

superconductivity to vacancies reflects the fact that the 

inner apical and planar oxygen sites mediate strong 

Ni –O hybridization and interlayer coupling within the 

bilayer . T heir removal simultaneously reconstructs the 

relevant eg orbital and generates strong local disorder, 

both of which are highly detrimental to 

superconducting coherence [38,39] .

As for the phase competing with superconductivity 

in this regime, a natural candidate is a spin -density -

wave (SDW) state [45 –47] . Oxygen vacancies can 

play two roles: they de crease the effective Ni valance 

and introduce quenched randomness along the in -

plane Ni –O network. These effects suggest at least two 

possible routes toward understanding the observed 

granularity of superconductivity. First, neglecting 

quenched disorder, an de crease in Ni valance may 

favor higher -spin states via a larger effective 

moment [48] , thereby stabilizing competing SDW 

order that suppresses superconductivity. In such a 

picture, superconductivity may nucleate in isolated 

regions where magnetic order is locally suppressed, 

for example near magnetic domain walls [49,50] .

Global superconducting coherence would then arise 

from Josephson tunneling through metallic SDW 

regions separating superconducting puddles. Second, 

when quenched randomness and bond disorder are 

included, the granularity is further enhanced by a 

rounding of the first -order transition between 

superconductivity and SDW order with disorder -

induced coexistence of both phases [51] . Moreover, 

quenched disorder drive s the metallic SDW electrons 

toward Anderson localization, weakening Josephson 

coupling between spatially separated superconducting 

regions [52,53] .

More broadly, this phenomenology bears a

conceptual resemblance to longstanding perspectives 

in cuprates [54] , where the underdoped regime is often 

associated with disorder -dominated or granular 

superconductivity [55] . In such pictures, 

superconducting pairing may persist locally even as 

global phase coherence is limited by inhomogeneity 

and scattering. The similarity of this framework to the 

oxygen -deficient regime of bilayer nickelates points to 

a possible commonalit y in how disorder, reduced 

carrier mobility, and phase fluctuations shape 6 / 22 

superconducting behavior in oxides. Beyond 

nickelates and cuprates, analogous behavior has been 

reported across diverse superconducting systems ,

including Pb –Ag alloys [28] , (Ba,K)BiO 3 (ref. [56] ),

Li xZrNCl (ref. [57] ), and (Li ,Fe )OHFeSe (ref. [58] ).

This suggests that asymmetric superconducting 

evolution driven by the interplay of doping , disorder ,

and competing phases is a broader organizing 

principle across superconductors . A final noteworthy 

point is the continued increase of Tc,onset toward the 

insulating regime on the left side of the phase diag ram 

(Fig. S5). This sugge sts that if electron doping could 

be achieved in bilayer nickelates without introducing 

significant disorder, an even higher Tc might be 

attainable. In this context, the synthesis of nickelates 

with new structural motifs represents a promising 

pathway toward this objective [59] .

APPENDIX: METHODS 

1. Sample preparation and XRD characterization 

The SrLaAlO 4(001) [SLAO(001)] substrates (MTI 

Corporation) were sonicated in acetone and IPA for 1 

minute each prior to both PLD and MBE growth. For 

PLD growth, polycrystalline LSNO and LPNO were 

used as targets during the deposition process. The 

LSNO and LPNO films were deposited by PLD with 

a KrF excimer laser (wavelength 248 nm). During the 

growth, the substrate temperature was maintained at 

660 °C under oxygen partial pressure p(O 2) of 150 

mTorr. The pulsed laser repetition rate during the 

deposition was 5 Hz. The laser fluence was 0.56 J/cm 2

with a spot size of 3.3 mm 2. For MBE growth, the 

SLAO substrate was first annealed in 5×10 -6 Torr 

ozone at 750 °C for 10 minutes. LPNO and LPCNO 

thin films were then deposited layer by layer at 680 °C 

in 1.8×10 -6 Torr ozone in a shutter -controlled mode. 

During growth, reflection high -energy electron 

diffraction with a 15 keV electron beam was employed 

to monitor the growth process and film quality. Unlike 

previous wor ks [6,23] , here we do not use a surface 

capping layer to facilitate oxygen tuning . For both 

PLD and MBE grown samples, XRD data were 

measured using a monochromated Cu Kα 1 source ( λ =

1.5406 Å) after growth. 

2. XAS measurements 

XAS experiments were carried out at T = 13.5 K at 

Beamline 13 -3 of the SSRL. The absorption spectra 

were acquired in total electron -yield mode, with the σ -

polarized X -rays incident at 10 -degree grazing angle. 

To preserve oxygen stoichiometry, we adopted the 

procedures described in [23] during sample storage 

and transportation. 

3. Transport measurements 

Au electrodes (40 nm thick) were deposited using 

electron beam evaporation and then electrodes were 

bonded to ceramic chip carriers with aluminum wires 

by an ultrasonic wire bonder before performing ozone 

annealing. During ozone annealing, electrical 

transport was measured inside a tube furnace [23] .

Low -temperature magnetotransport measurements 

were performed using 4He cryostats. The vacuum 

annealing was then performed within the same 4He 

cryostats by raising the temperature to ~360 K and 

held at that temperature ( tanneal ) before subsequent low -

temperature measurements .

4. EELS measurements 

To prepare cross -sectional scanning transmission 

electron microscopy (STEM) specimens, we used an 

FEI Strata 400S focused ion beam (FIB) system with 

a Quorum PP3010T cryo -stage. The FIB specimen 

stage was cooled to -192 °C while performing a

cryogenic lift -out protocol adapted from ref. [60] .

EELS of the O -K edge was measured on the cryo -FIB 

prepared lamella using a FEI Titan Themis operated at 

300 kV accelerating voltage and 21.4 mrad semi -

convergence angle equipped with a Gatan Quantum 

965 energy filter and a K2 Summit direct electron 

detector. A Gatan Mode l 626 cryo -transfer holder was 

used to maintain specimen temperature below -180 °C 

throughout the measurement. Keeping the sample cool 

during FIB process and STEM -EELS measurements 

preserves oxygen stoichiometry which is altered if 

performed at room temper ature. Spectra were recorded 

with an energy dispersion of 0.1 eV per channel, 0.7 Å 

spatial step size, 3710 energy channels, and a 75 pA 

probe current. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

We thank W. He, S. A. Kivelson , Y. S. Lee, R. Peng, 

H. C. Xu, and Y. Zhang for discussions and assistance. 

This work was supported by the US Department of 

Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, Division of 

Materials Sciences and Engineering (contract no. DE -

AC0276SF00515), as well as the Kavli Foundation, 

Klaus Tschira Stiftung, and Kevin Wells 

(development of in -situ annealing). Work at the 

Stanford Nano Shared Facilities (SNSF) 

RRID:SCR_023230 is supported by the National 

Science Foundation under grant ECCS -1542152. 

B.H.G. was supported by the Max Planck Society. L.B. 

and D.A.M. acknowledge support by the NSF 

Platform for the Acceler ated Realization, Analysis, 

and Discovery of Interface Materials (PARADIM) 

under cooperative agreement No. DMR -2039380. 

B.H.G. was supported by the Max Planck Society. 

STEM related work made use of the Cornell Center for 

Materials Research shared instrumen tation facility. 

The FEI Titan Themis 300 was acquired through NSF -

MRI -1429155, with additional support from Cornell 7 / 22 

University, the Weill Institute, and the Kavli Institute 

at Cornell. Support for the FIB/SEM cryo -stage and 

transfer system was provided by the Kavli Institute at 

Cornell and the Energy Materials Center at Cornell, 

DOE EFRC BES (DE -SC0001086). X-ray 

measur ements were carried out at the SSRL, SLAC 

National Accelerator Laboratory, supported by the US 

Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of 

Basic Energy Sciences (contract no. DE -AC02 -

76SF00515). 

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 

Y.L. and B.Y.W. contributed equally to this work. 

Y.Y. , H.Y.H. and Z. -X.S. supervised this project. 

B.Y.W. , Y.L. , H.Y.H., and Y.Y. conceived and 

designed the study . Y.L. synthesized LSNO and 

LPNO films, and B.Y.W. synthesized LPNO and 

LPCNO films. Y.Y. , Y.L. and Y.T studied the ozone 

annealing effects . Y.Y. , Y.L. , and B.Y.W. 

characterized and studied the transport propert ies with 

the assistance of Y.T. L.B., M.C., B.H.G. and D.A.M. 

performed EELS stud ies. J.L. performed the XAS 

measurements with support fro m C.T.K. and J.S.L . All 

experimental contributions of Y.Y. were performed at 

Stanford. Y.L. , B.Y.W., J.L., Y. -M.W ., S.R., H.Y.H. 

and Y.Y. analyzed the data. Y.L. , B.Y.W., S.R., 

H.Y.H. and Y.Y. wrote the paper with input from all 

authors. 

DATA AVAILABILITY 

The data presented in the figures and other findings 

of this study are available from the corresponding 

authors upon reasonable request. 

[1] D. J. Scalapino, A common thread: The pairing 

interaction for unconventional superconductors ,

Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 , 1383 (2012). 

[2] B. Keimer, S. A. Kivelson, M. R. Norman, S. 

Uchida, and J. Zaanen, From quantum matter to 

high -temperature superconductivity in copper 

oxides , Nature 518 , 179 (2015). 

[3] H. Sun et al., Signatures of superconductivity near 

80 K in a nickelate under high pressure , Nature 

621 , 493 (2023). 

[4] J. Hou et al., Emergence of High -Temperature 

Superconducting Phase in Pressurized 

La 3Ni 2O7 Crystals , Chin. Phys. Lett. 40 , 117302 

(2023). 

[5] Y. Zhang et al., High -temperature 

superconductivity with zero resistance and 

strange -metal behaviour in La 3Ni 2O7-δ, Nat. 

Phys. 20 , 1269 (2024). 

[6] E. K. Ko et al., Signatures of ambient pressure 

superconductivity in thin film La 3Ni 2O7, Nature 

638 , 935 (2025). 

[7] G. Zhou et al., Ambient -pressure superconductivity 

onset above 40 K in (La,Pr) 3Ni 2O7 films , Nature 

640 , 641 (2025). 

[8] G. Wang et al., Pressure -Induced 

Superconductivity In Polycrystalline La 3Ni 2O7-δ,

Phys. Rev. X 14 , 011040 (2024). 

[9] J. Li et al., Identification of superconductivity in 

bilayer nickelate La 3Ni 2O7 under high pressure 

up to 100 GPa , Natl. Sci. Rev. 12 , nwaf220 

(2025). 

[10] N. Wang et al., Bulk high -temperature 

superconductivity in pressurized tetragonal 

La 2PrNi 2O7, Nature 634 , 579 (2024). 

[11] F. Li et al., Bulk superconductivity up to 96 K in 

pressurized nickelate single crystals , Nature 

649 , 871 (2025). 

[12] T. Cui et al., Strain -mediated phase crossover in 

Ruddlesden –Popper nickelates , Commun. 

Mater. 5, 32 (2024). 

[13] L. Bhatt et al., Resolving Structural Origins for 

Superconductivity in Strain -Engineered 

La 3Ni 2O7 Thin Films , arXiv:2501.08204. 

[14] M. Osada, C. Terakura, A. Kikkawa, M. 

Nakajima, H. -Y. Chen, Y. Nomura, Y. Tokura, 

and A. Tsukazaki, Strain -tuning for 

superconductivity in La 3Ni 2O7 thin films ,

Commun. Phys. 8, 251 (2025). 

[15] Y. Tarn et al., Reducing the Strain Required for 

Ambient‐Pressure Superconductivity in 

Ruddlesden‐Popper Bilayer Nickelates , Adv. 

Mater. e20724 (2026). 

[16] H. Wang et al., Electronic Structures across the 

Superconductor -Insulator Transition at 

La 2.85 Pr 0.15 Ni 2O7/SrLaAlO 4 Interfaces .

[17] M. Wang, B. Hao, W. Sun, S. Yan, S. Sun, H. 

Zhang, Z. Gu, and Y. Nie, Superconducting 

Dome in La 3-xSr xNi 2O7-δ Thin Films , Phys. Rev. 

Lett. 136 , 066002 (2026). 

[18] Y. Ueki, H. Sakurai, H. Nagata, K. Yamane, R. 

Matsumoto, K. Terashima, K. Hirose, H. Ohta, 

M. Kato, and Y. Takano, Phase Diagram of 

Pressure -Induced High Temperature 

Superconductor La 3Ni 2O7+ δ , J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 

94 , 013703 (2025). 

[19] L. Xiang, S. Lei, X. Ren, Z. Han, Z. Xu, X. J. 

Zhou, and Z. Zhu, Stabilizing and Tuning 

Superconductivity in La 3Ni 2O7-δ Films: Oxygen 

Recycling Protocol Reveals Hole -Doping 

Analogue , arXiv:2508.11581. 

[20] Y. Shi et al., Critical Thickness and Long‐Term 

Ambient Stability in Superconducting 

LaPr 2Ni 2O7 Films , Adv. Mater. e10394 (2025). 

[21] B. Hao et al., Superconductivity in Sr -doped 

La 3Ni 2O7 thin films , Nat. Mater. 24 , 1756 (2025). 

[22] Z. Dong et al., Visualization of oxygen vacancies 

and self -doped ligand holes in La 3Ni 2O7-δ,8 / 22 

Nature 630 , 847 (2024). 

[23] Y. Liu et al., Superconductivity and normal -state 

transport in compressively strained La 2PrNi 2O7

thin films , Nat. Mater. 24 , 1221 (2025). 

[24] X. Chen, N. Wang, Q. Zhang, B. Wang, G. Wang, 

B. Wang, J. Cheng, and L. Gu, Interlayer 

Switching of NiO 6 Octahedra Tilt via Interstitial 

Oxygen in La n + 1 Ni nO3n + 1 ( n = 1, 2, 3) , Adv. 

Mater. 37 , e04238 (2025). 

[25] Z. Dong, G. Wang, N. Wang, W. -H. Dong, L. Gu, 

Y. Xu, J. Cheng, Z. Chen, and Y. Wang, 

Interstitial oxygen order and its competition 

with superconductivity in La 2PrNi 2O7+ δ, Nat. 

Mater. 24 , 1927 (2025). 

[26] Y. Zhang et al., Strong oxidizing annealing of 

bilayer La 3Ni 2O7-δ results in suppression of 

superconductivity under high pressure , J. Solid 

State Chem. 355 , 125757 (2026). 

[27] M. Shi et al., Spin density wave rather than 

tetragonal structure is prerequisite for 

superconductivity in La 3Ni 2O7-δ, Nat. Commun. 

16 , 9141 (2025). 

[28] L. Merchant, J. Ostrick, R. P. Barber, and R. C. 

Dynes, Crossover from phase fluctuation to 

amplitude -dominated superconductivity: A

model system , Phys. Rev. B 63 , 134508 (2001). 

[29] J. M. Tranquada, Y. Kong, J. E. Lorenzo, D. J. 

Buttrey, D. E. Rice, and V. Sachan, Oxygen 

intercalation, stage ordering, and phase 

separation in La 2NiO 4+ δ with 0.05 

≲δ

≲0.11 ,

Phys. Rev. B 50 , 6340 (1994). 

[30] Z. Zhang, M. Greenblatt, and J. B. Goodenough, 

Synthesis, Structure, and Properties of the 

Layered Perovskite La 3Ni 2O7-δ, J. Solid State 

Chem. 108 , 402 (1994). 

[31] D. Ferenc Segedin et al., Topochemical Oxidation 

of Ruddlesden –Popper Nickelates Reveals 

Distinct Structural Family: Oxygen -

Intercalated Layered Perovskites , J. Am. Chem. 

Soc. jacs.5c12712 (2026). 

[32] M. R. Presland, J. L. Tallon, R. G. Buckley, R. S. 

Liu, and N. E. Flower, General trends in oxygen 

stoichiometry effects on Tc in Bi and Tl 

superconductors , Phys. C 176 , 95 (1991). 

[33] M. W. Den Otter, H. J. M. Bouwmeester, B. A. 

Boukamp, and H. Verweij, Reactor Flush Time 

Correction in Relaxation Experiments , J. 

Electrochem. Soc. 148 , J1 (2001). 

[34] J. A. Kilner and M. Burriel, Materials for 

Intermediate -Temperature Solid -Oxide Fuel 

Cells , Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 44 , 365 (2014). 

[35] E. Sterpetti, J. Biscaras, A. Erb, and A. Shukla, 

Comprehensive phase diagram of two -

dimensional space charge doped 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+ x, Nat. Commun. 8, 2060 

(2017). 

[36] Y. Yu, L. Ma, P. Cai, R. Zhong, C. Ye, J. Shen, 

G. D. Gu, X. H. Chen, and Y. Zhang, High -

temperature superconductivity in monolayer 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+ δ, Nature 575 , 156 (2019). 

[37] I. Zeljkovic, Z. Xu, J. Wen, G. Gu, R. S. 

Markiewicz, and J. E. Hoffman, Imaging the 

Impact of Single Oxygen Atoms on 

Superconducting Bi 2+y Sr 2–yCaCu 2O8+x , Science 

337 , 320 (2012). 

[38] Y. -B. Liu, J. -W. Mei, F. Ye, W. -Q. Chen, and F. 

Yang, s ±-Wave Pairing and the Destructive 

Role of Apical -Oxygen Deficiencies in La 3Ni 2O7

under Pressure , Phys. Rev. Lett. 131 , 236002 

(2023). 

[39] X. Sui, X. Han, H. Jin, X. Chen, L. Qiao, X. Shao, 

and B. Huang, Electronic properties of the 

bilayer nickelates R3Ni 2O7 with oxygen 

vacancies ( R=La or Ce) , Phys. Rev. B 109 ,

205156 (2024). 

[40] Q. Li et al., Enhanced superconductivity in the 

compressively strained bilayer nickelate thin 

films by pressure , Nat. Commun. (2026). 

[41] B. O. Wells, Y. S. Lee, M. A. Kastner, R. J. 

Christianson, R. J. Birgeneau, K. Yamada, Y. 

Endoh, and G. Shirane, Incommensurate Spin 

Fluctuations in High -Transition Temperature 

Superconductors , Science 277 , 1067 (1997). 

[42] J. L. Tallon, C. Bernhard, H. Shaked, R. L. 

Hitterman, and J. D. Jorgensen, Generic 

superconducting phase behavior in high -Tc

cuprates: Tc variation with hole concentration 

in YBa 2Cu 3O7-δ, Phys. Rev. B 51 , 12911 (1995). 

[43] A. T. Bollinger, G. Dubuis, J. Yoon, D. Pavuna, 

J. Misewich, and I. Božović, Superconductor –

insulator transition in La 2-xSr xCuO 4 at the pair 

quantum resistance , Nature 472 , 458 (2011). 

[44] S. Ryee, N. Witt, G. Sangiovanni, and T. O. 

Wehling, Superconductivity Governed by 

Janus -Faced Fermiology in Strained Bilayer 

Nickelates , Phys. Rev. Lett. 135 , 236003 (2025). 

[45] D. Zhao, Y. Zhou, M. Huo, Y. Wang, L. Nie, Y. 

Yang, J. Ying, M. Wang, T. Wu, and X. Chen, 

Pressure -enhanced spin -density -wave 

transition in double -layer nickelate La 3Ni 2O7-δ ,

Sci. Bull. 70 , 1239 (2025). 

[46] T. Xie et al., Strong interlayer magnetic exchange 

coupling in La 3Ni 2O7-δ revealed by inelastic 

neutron scattering , Sci. Bull. 69 , 3221 (2024). 

[47] X. Chen et al., Electronic and magnetic 

excitations in La 3Ni 2O7, Nat. Commun. 15 ,

9597 (2024). 

[48] H. Oh, Y. -M. Wu, J. May -Mann, Y. Yu, H. Y. 

Hwang, Y. -H. Zhang, and S. Raghu, High spin, 

low spin, or gapped spins: Magnetism in the 

bilayer nickelates , Phys. Rev. B 113 , 024430 

(2026). 9 / 22 

[49] S. A. Kivelson, G. Aeppli, and V. J. Emery, 

Thermodynamics of the interplay between 

magnetism and high -temperature 

superconductivity , Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 

98 , 11903 (2001). 

[50] S. A. Kivelson, D. -H. Lee, E. Fradkin, and V. 

Oganesyan, Competing order in the mixed state 

of high -temperature superconductors , Phys. 

Rev. B 66 , 144516 (2002). 

[51] H. Ji et al., Time -Reversal Symmetry Breaking 

Superconductivity with Electronic Glass in 

Nickelate (La, Pr, Sm) 3Ni 2O7 Films ,

arXiv:2508.16412. 

[52] Y. Imry and M. Strongin, Destruction of 

superconductivity in granular and highly 

disordered metals , Phys. Rev. B 24 , 6353 

(1981). 

[53] M. V. Feigel’man, L. B. Ioffe, V. E. Kravtsov, 

and E. Cuevas, Fractal superconductivity near 

localization threshold , Ann. Phys. (N. Y.) 325 ,

1390 (2010). 

[54] V. J. Emery, S. A. Kivelson, and O. Zachar, Spin -

gap proximity effect mechanism of high -

temperature superconductivity , Phys. Rev. B 56 ,

6120 (1997). 

[55] K. M. Lang, V. Madhavan, J. E. Hoffman, E. W. 

Hudson, H. Eisakißk, S. Uchidaß, and J. C. 

Davis, Imaging the granular structure of high -

Tc superconductivity in underdoped 

Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+ δ, (2002). 

[56] Y. Nagata, A. Mishiro, T. Uchida, M. Ohtsuka, 

and H. Samata, Normal -state transport 

properties of Ba 1-xKxBiO 2 crystals , J. Phys. 

Chem. Solids 60 , 1933 (1999). 

[57] Y. Nakagawa, Y. Kasahara, T. Nomoto, R. Arita, 

T. Nojima, and Y. Iwasa, Gate -controlled BCS -

BEC crossover in a two -dimensional 

superconductor , Science 372 , 190 (2021). 

[58] B. Lei et al., Gate -tuned superconductor -

insulator transition in (Li,Fe)OHFeSe , Phys. 

Rev. B 93 , 060501 (2016). 

[59] R. Wernert, R. D. Smyth, and M. A. Hayward, 

Synthesis of the Double Infinite -Layer Ni(I) 

Phase La 3Ni 2O5F via Sequential Topochemical 

Reactions , J. Am. Chem. Soc. jacs.5c16740 

(2026). 

[60] M. J. Zachman, Z. Tu, S. Choudhury, L. A. 

Archer, and L. F. Kourkoutis, Cryo -STEM 

mapping of solid –liquid interfaces and 

dendrites in lithium -metal batteries , Nature 560 ,

345 (2018). 

[61] L. Wang et al., Spontaneous phase segregation of 

Sr 2NiO 3 and SrNi 2O3 during SrNiO 3

heteroepitaxy , Sci. Adv. 7, eabe2866 (2021). 10 / 22 

FIG. 1. S uperconducting phase diagram of bilayer nickelate film s. (a) General phase diagram plotted against T and 

σ(200 K) norm obtained from samples studied in this work . Here, σ(200 K) norm , defined in the main text, serves as a 

proxy for oxygen stoichiometry, with oxygen content increasing from left (deficient) to right (excess) . Tc,onset and Tins 

are labeled with filled and open circles. As the oxygen content increases from the deficient regime toward 

stoichiometry, a granular superconducting phase emerges from the insulator (blue), followed by the establishment of 

a robust superconducting state (red ). Further oxygen incorporati on beyond stoichiometry suppresses 

superconductivity, and the ground state evolves to a metal (yellow). Notably, granular superconductivity emerges 

exclusively on the oxygen -deficient side, giving rise to a half -dome -like structure. ( b) Schematic of the structural 

evolution under varying oxygen stoichiometry. The contrasting roles of scattering versus doping are indicated. 11 / 22 

FIG. 2 . Superconductivity of bilayer nickelate thin films under different ozone annealing conditions. (a) Phase diagram 

of ozone annealing temperature Tanneal vs. ozone concentration w(O 3). Filled green circles represent films transformed 

into higher -order RP phases, while blue and red dots correspond to LSNO and LPNO films remaining in the bilayer 

phase. The size of each blue and red dot reflects the Tc,onset of each sample. The black dashed line represents the 

estimated stability boundary from ref. [23] , above which the bilayer phase cannot be maintained; approaching this 

boundary allows more oxygen insertion. (b) -(c) ρ(T) normalized at 200 K for LPNO and LSNO under different ozone 

conditions, respectively. Both Tc,onset and the normal -state resistivity evolve systematically with annealing conditions. 

Each curve corresponds to a sample labeled with the same letter as in (a). 12 / 22 

FIG. 3 . Spectroscopic benchmarking of oxygen stoichiometry in bilayer nickelate thin films. ( a) O K-edge EELS 

spectra of LPNO thin film sample with optimal superconductivity. Light grey, grey, and dark grey curves are reference 

spectra of bulk LPNO with positive, near zero, and negative δ from refs. [22,25] . ( b) ρ(T) of three LSNO thin film 

samples: as -grown (labeled ‘deficient’), metallic after ozone anneal ing (labeled ‘excess’), and with optimal 

superconductivity after ozone anneal ing (labeled ‘stoichiometric’). ( c) Ni L2-edge XAS spectra of the same samples 

in ( b). Dark and light grey lines are reference spectra for Ni 2+ and Ni 3+ from ref s. [47,61] . ( d) O K-edge XAS spectra 

of the same samples in ( b). 13 / 22 

FIG. 4 . A superconducting half -dome tuned by oxygen stoichiometry in an LSNO thin film. (a) -(b) ρ(T) of an ozone -

annealed LSNO thin film sample measured after sequential vacuum annealing. (a) shows the evolution from the 

metallic state to optimized superconductivity (Stage I and Crossover ), while (b) shows further evolution from 

optimized superconductivity to the insulating state ( Crossover and Stage II ). ( c)-(d) Evolution of RRR and σ(200 K) 

plotted against tanneal , respectively. In (d) , t he grey curves indicate th e fitted results using different functionals 

corresponding to Stages I and II for σ(200 K) , respectively . The vertical dashed line aligns the intersection of two 

fittings in (d) and coincide s with the maximum of RRR in (c). (e) Contour map of ρ plot against T and tanneal , showing 

a superconducting half -dome. The inset schematics in (a), (b), and (e) sketch the structural evolution under oxygen 

stoichiometry change . The dashed lines indicate the positions for ‘optimized’ and ‘balanced’ states , with the Crossover 

region defined between them. (f) Evolution of RH at 60, 120, and 200 K plotted against tanneal . The dashed lines indicate 

the positions for ‘optimized’ and ‘balanced’ states .14 / 22 

FIG. 5 . Superconducting half -dome s in LSNO and LPCNO films. (a) Contour maps of ρ/ρ(200 K) plotted against T

and σ(200 K) norm of the same sample in Fig. 4. (b) -(d) Contour maps of ρ/ρ(200 K) plotted against T and σ(200 K) norm 

of LPCNO thin films with x = 0, 0.165, 0.382, respectively. Each shows a similar but incomplete half -dome -like 

contour as in (a). (e) -(h) Evolution of RH at 60, 120, and 200 K plotted against σ(200 K) norm for the same samples in 

(a) -(d), respectively. All exhibit similar trends, with slight variations in the magnitude of RH among samples. The 

dashed lines indicate the positions of ‘optimized’ and ‘balanced’ states for each sample. σ(200 K) in (b) is scaled such 

that the point corresponding to optimized superconductivity aligns with that of LSNO in (a), as no local minimum is 

observed in RH. Since no well -defined maximum in RRR is observed in (b), the ‘balanced’ position is not labeled. 15 / 22 

FIG. S 1. Transport and structural evolution of bilayer nickelate thin films under different ozone anneal ing conditions .

(a), (c) XRD θ-2θ symmetric scans of LPNO thin film samples (labeled as sample I and J in Fig. 2(a) , respectively) 

before and after ozone annealing. In (a), aggressive ozone annealing triggers the transformation to mixed higher -order 

RP phases, while in (c) , the bilayer structure is preserved but with excess oxygen . The SLAO(001) substrate peaks are 

marked by ♦. The gold (111) peak is marked by ▼. (b), (d) ρ(T) of LPNO thin film samples measured after ozone 

annealing and subsequently after two months in ambient conditions. If the material is (partially) transformed into 

high er -order RP phases (a), superconductivity remains absent after oxygen loss (b). In contrast, for samples in which 

the bilayer structure is preserved (c), Tc is enhanced upon oxygen loss (d). 16 / 22 

FIG. S2 . Definition of transition temperatures. ( a) d 2ρ/d T2 of an optimally superconducting LSNO thin film sample. 

Inset: Tc,onset is obtained by linearly fitting to the approximately linear region near the onset of the transition, with the 

zero intercept of the fit defining Tc,onset . (b) ρ(T) of the sample in (a). The red, yellow, green, blue, and purple filled 

circles represent Tc,onset , Tc, 90% , Tc, 50% , Tc, 10% , and Tc,0, respectively. Tc, 90% , Tc, 50% , and Tc, 10% are defined as the 

temperatures where the resistance reaches 90%, 50%, and 10% of the normal -state resistance near Tc,onset .17 / 22 

FIG. S3 . Evolution of XRD patterns of bilayer nickelate thin films with different oxygen stoichiometries. (a) ρ(T) of 

one LSNO thin film sample (labeled as sample A in Fig. 2(a) ), measured after sequential post -growth treatments: as -

grown (labeled ‘deficient’), after ozone annealing to a metallic state (labeled ‘excess’), and after vacuum -annealing 

to optimal superconductivity (labeled ‘stoichiometric’). (b) XRD θ-2θ symmetric scans of LSNO sample after each 

step of post -growth treatments. The SLAO(001) substrate peaks are marked by ♦, and the (00 14 ) peaks of LSNO are 

marked by ●. The inset zooms in on the (00 14 ) film peak. A c lattice expansion is observed as the samples evolve 

from an oxygen -deficient insulating state to a stoichiometric optimally superconducting state, consistent with ref. [18] .

Subsequently, a very slight contraction is observed upon transitioning to the oxygen -excess metallic state, consistent 

with recent bulk reports [18,25] . However , the evolution of c lattice with oxygen stoichiometry is not consistent across 

different literature studies. For instance, contrary to our observation, a bulk report suggested that slightly oxygen -

deficient samples possess a larger c lattice than stoichiometric ones [30] . Additionally, another report on thin films 

has shown a pronounced c lattice expansion, rather than contraction, upon intercalating interstitial oxygen [31] . These 

discrepancies likely stem from multiple factors. The presence of polymorphism and mixed RP phases in earl y studies 

hinders exact stoichiometry determination in bulk, and variations in structural symmetry with oxygen content 

complicate lattice analysis [26,31] . Moreover, the epitaxial strain in thin films likely induces different structural 

responses to oxygen stoichiometry compared to bulk. 18 / 22 

FIG. S4 . Reversibility of continuous oxygen tuning. (a) -(d) ρ(T) of LPNO thin films subjected to a first and second 

cycle of ozone annealing , measured after sequential vacuum annealing. (a), (c) show the evolution from the metallic 

state to the superconducting state ( Stage I to Crossover ), while (b), (d) show further evolution from the 

superconducting state to the insulating state ( Crossover to Stage II ). (a) -(b) correspond to the first -round ozone -

annealed sample while (c) -(d) represent the second -round ozone -annealed sample. The inset schematics illustrate the 

structural response to chan ges in oxygen stoichiometry. Although the crystallinity somewhat degraded after the second 

ozone annealing, a similar evolution in transport properties was observed in both measurement rounds. 19 / 22 

FIG. S5 . A superconducting half -dome tuned by oxygen stoichiometry in an LSNO thin film. Contour map of d ρ/d T

plotted against T and tanneal , where blue and red regions represent positive and negative d ρ/d T, indicating the presence 

of superconducting and insulating transitions, respectively. On the right side, the superconducting transition width —

indicated by the extent of the blue region —remains nearly constant, whereas on the left, the transition broadens rapidly 

as Tc,50% collapses with decreasing δ.20 / 22 

FIG. S6 . Scaling analysis of the SIT in bilayer nickelate thin films. (a) ρ(T) of ozone -annealed LSNO thin films 

measured after sequential vacuum annealing in Stage II (the same sample shown in Fig. 4). The blue shaded region 

shows the temperature range for the finite -size scaling analysis . (b) The same dataset in (a) plotted as a function of 

doping level at fixed temperatures between 6 K and 25 K, with each color representing a fixed temperature. 

Continuous curves are interpolations of data points at different temperatures. All curves cross at the critical resistance 

ρc = 13. 8 kΩ/bilayer . (c) Scaling of the same data with respect to variable u = |σ–σc|t(T). A single set of temperature -

dependent parameters t(T) can collapse all data to a universal scaling function on both sides of the SIT. (d) 

t(T) obtained from finite -size scaling analysis in (c). The slope of the line fit (grey line) yields the critical exponents 

product zν = 2. 5.21 / 22 

FIG. S7 . Evolution of the Hall coefficient with temperature ( RH(T)) in bilayer nickelate thin films with different 

oxygen stoichiometries. (a) RH(T) data from refs. [6,40,7,21,23,20] (ordered top to bottom). (b) RH(T) for the sample 

shown in Fig. 4, where colors denote different oxygen stoichiometries. (c), ρ(T) of the same sample as in (b) at various 

oxygen stoichiometries. Curves corresponding to the same stoichiometry share the same color. The schematic on the 

right illustrates the structural changes associated with varying oxygen stoichiometry. 22 / 22 

FIG. S8 . Evolution of transport properties in bilayer nickelate thin films with different oxygen stoichiometries. (a) -(e) 

Evolution of RRR plotted against σ(200 K) norm for the same samples shown in Fig. 1. Each curve corresponds to the 

sample with the same color as in Fig. 1. (f) -(o) Selected ρ(T) for the same samples as in (a) -(e). (k) -(o) show the 

evolution from the metallic state to optimal superconductivity (Stage I to Crossover ), respectively. (f) -(j) show further 

evolution from the optimally superconducting s tate to the insulating state ( Crossover to Stage II ), respectively . Tins 

indicated by filled red circles. The schematics on the right illustrate the structural evolution driven by changes in 

oxygen stoichiometry.