Title: Pairing and charge distribution in Emery ladders preserving the ratio of Cu to O atoms

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.10755v1

Published Time: Thu, 12 Mar 2026 01:00:04 GMT

Number of Pages: 12

Markdown Content:
# Pairing and charge distribution in Emery ladders preserving the ratio of Cu to O atoms 

G¨ okmen Polat and Eric Jeckelmann 

Leibniz Universit¨ at Hannover, Institute of Theoretical Physics, Appelstr. 2, 30167 Hanover, Germany 

(Dated: March 12, 2026) We study the Emery model (three-band Hubbard model) for superconducting cuprates on three distinct ladder-like lattices that are supercell of the CuO 2 plane and thus preserve the ratio of copper to oxygen atoms. Using the density-matrix renormalization group method we confirm that these Emery ladders are charge-transfer insulators for the hole concentration corresponding to undoped cuprates but become Luther-Emery liquids with enhanced pairing correlations upon doping. The preservation of the Cu to O ratio allows us to study the distribution of charges between these atoms in the Luther-Emery phase. We show that these Emery ladders can describe the relations between charge distribution, pairing strength, and interactions that have been observed in the Emery model on two-dimensional clusters and in experiments. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Understanding cuprate high-temperature supercon-ductors remains a theoretical challenge forty years af-ter their discovery [1]. The two-dimensional (2D) Emery model (or three-band Hubbard model) [2] is generally be-lieved to describe the low-energy electronic properties of these materials [3]. As this model includes both copper and oxygen orbitals of the CuO 2 planes, it allows one to describe undoped cuprates as charge-transfer insulators and to investigate the charge distribution between copper and oxygen atoms in doped cuprates [4–8]. Given the dif-ficulty of studying 2D strongly correlated systems, quasi-one-dimensional (1D) subsystems called ladders have of-ten been investigated with the aim of shedding light on the properties of their 2D parents [9, 10]. The advantage of ladder systems is the availability of well-established methods for 1D correlated models such as the density-matrix renormalization group (DMRG) [11–15]. The Emery model has been studied on two-leg ladders using the DMRG method for nearly 30 years [4, 16, 17]. Re-cently, this approach has been used [18–23] to investigate the existence of a Luther-Emery phase with enhanced pairing correlations [24], which is the 1D counterpart of the superconducting phase in higher dimensions. In our previous work [23], we demonstrated the ex-istence of a robust Luther-Emery phase with enhanced pairing correlations in the three common ladder struc-tures used in other works [4, 16–22], which we called 3-chain ladder, 5-chain ladder, and 4-chain tube. How-ever, the ratio of Cu to O orbitals is 2:3 and 2:5 in the 3-chain and 5-chain ladders, respectively, which differs significantly from the ratio 1:2 of the 2D CuO 2 lattice. The 4-chain tube has the right ratio but pairing occurs only if the hopping terms between Cu and O orbitals are anisotropic. Thus it is questionable whether these com-mon ladders can approximate the essential properties of the isotropic 2D CuO 2 lattice, especially, the charge dis-tribution between Cu and O atoms. In this work we propose three two-leg ladder struc-tures with a Cu to O ratio of 1:2. Each ladder can be seen as a supercell of the 2D CuO 2 lattice. A drawback is that they have lower symmetries than the common ladder structures. We study the Emery model on the proposed ladder structures and show that they exhibit the low-energy properties expected for cuprates with realistic pa-rameters. In particular, they are charge-transfer insula-tors for the hole concentration corresponding to undoped cuprates but become Luther-Emery liquids upon doping. This allows us to study the distribution of charges be-tween copper and oxygen atoms as well as the pairing strength as a function of doping and Hamiltonian pa-rameters. We find systematic relations in agreement with experimental results [25, 26] and theoretical predictions for 2D clusters [5–8]. The structure of the paper is as follows: In Sec. II, we introduce the ladder structures, the Emery model and the method used. We discuss the properties of the ladders at hole concentration corresponding to undoped cuprates in Sec. III. In Sec. IV we investigate their pairing properties upon electron and hole doping. The charge distribution on the oxygen and copper orbitals is discussed in Sec. V. Finally, we present our conclusion in Sec. VI. 

II. MODEL AND METHOD A. Ladder structures 

The low-energy electronic excitations of superconduct-ing cuprates are confined in their CuO 2 planes [3, 27]. Thus many efforts have been devoted to understanding the properties of strongly correlated electron systems on 2D lattices. However, most numerical approaches can only handle small subsystems of 2D lattices accurately. In particular, the DMRG method has been very success-fully applied to ladder lattices. The original Hubbard ladders [28] are simply made of two coupled 1D Hubbard chains and they can be seen as narrow strips cut out of a square lattice. For the 2D CuO 2 lattice, however, there are many pos-sibilities of cutting out a strip of Cu and O atoms. Several 

> arXiv:2603.10755v1 [cond-mat.str-el] 11 Mar 2026

2         

> FIG. 1. Schematic of various two-leg ladder lattice struc-tures. Squares and circles represent copper dorbitals and oxygen porbitals, respectively. Solid black circles and squares are included in all lattice structures. White circles denote the outer oxygen porbitals that are included in specific ladders only. Dashed-dotted lines indicate the unit cells. Solid lines represent the hopping terms between orbitals in the Emery model (1). (a) Three-chain ladder made of the solid black symbols, five-chain ladder made of all symbols, and four-chain tube, where the upper and lower white circles represent the same oxygen atoms, (b) t-ladder with translation symmetry, (c) g-ladder with glide symmetry, and (d) r-ladder with re-flection symmetry.

ladder structures for cuprates are shown in Fig. 1. All examples in this figure are two-leg ladders composed of two chains of copper atoms and a variable number of oxy-gen atoms. Figure 1(a) illustrates three common ladder structures that have already been studied in the frame-work of the Emery model [4, 16–23]: the three-chain lad-der, the five-chain ladder, and the four-chain tube. Note that they possess a reflection symmetry in the rung di-rection (vertical or y-direction) and that infinitely long ladders also have a discrete translational invariance in the leg direction (horizontal or x-direction). Although the study of these ladders has yield much information about the properties of the Emery model, their adequacy for investigating the properties of 2D sys-tems is questionable [23]. Indeed, these ladders cannot be seen as a supercell of the 2D CuO 2 lattice, i.e we do not recover the correct 2D lattice structure by repeating                                  

> Ladder Unit cell T1T2R
> 3-chain Cu 2O3✓✓✓
> 5-chain Cu 2O5✓✓✓
> tube Cu 2O4✓✓✓
> tCu 2O4✓✓-gCu 4O8-✓-rCu 4O8-✓✓
> TABLE I. Unit cell and symmetries of the six ladder struc-tures illustrated in Fig. 1. T1indicates that an infinitely long ladder is invariant under discrete translations in the leg di-rection with a period equal to the lattice constant of the 2D CuO 2lattice. T2corresponds to a twice longer lattice period.
> Rindicates a reflection symmetry in the rung direction.

periodically one of these ladder structures. An obvious inconsistency is that the ratio of Cu to O atoms is 2:3 and 2:5 in the 3-chain and 5-chain ladders, respectively, instead of the ratio 1:2 in the 2D CuO2 lattice. This is an important issue when studying the charge redistribu-tion between Cu and O atoms as discussed in Sec. V. The four-chain tube has the correct ratio of both atoms but as a result of the periodic hopping terms in the rung direction, it exhibits a Luther-Emery phase only for hop-ping terms that are stronger in the leg direction than in the rung direction [23], which is not compatible with the symmetry of the 2D CuO 2 lattice under 90 degree rotations. However, various two-leg ladder structures that are su-percells and thus have the correct ratio of Cu to O atoms can be cut out of the 2D CuO 2 lattice. Three examples are shown in Fig. 1(b) to (d). Obviously, they possess a lower symmetry than the common ladders shown in Fig. 1(a). The t-ladder in Fig. 1(b) preserves the dis-crete translational invariance but breaks the reflection symmetry. The g-ladder in Fig. 1(c) possesses a glide symmetry instead of the separate translation and reflec-tion symmetries. Thus its unit cell is twice as large as for the common ladder structures. Finally, the r-ladder in Fig. 1(d) preserves the reflection symmetry in the rung direction but its periodicity in the leg direction is also twice as long as for the common ladder structures. The symmetries and unit cells are summarized in Table I.  

> B. Hamiltonian

The Emery model [2, 3] extends the Hubbard model to describe holes in the pertinent orbitals of a 2D CuO 2

lattice. The model incorporates one dx2−y2 orbital for each copper atom and one px or py orbital for each oxygen atom. We apply this model to the two-leg ladders shown in Fig. 1. The system size L is defined as the number of d orbitals on a single leg. This is also the number of rungs in the ladder. The undoped state corresponds to a filling of N = 2 L holes. The doping concentration is defined as δ = N/ (2 L) − 1. Thus δ = 0 corresponds to 3an undoped ladder, δ > 0 when the system is hole-doped but holes are removed ( δ < 0) upon electron doping. The Hamiltonian is 

H = − tdpx 

X

> ⟨ij ⟩,σ



p† 

> xiσ

djσ + H.c. 



− tdpy 

X

> ⟨ij ⟩,σ



p† 

> yiσ

djσ + H.c. 



− tpp 

X

> ⟨ij ⟩,σ



p† 

> xiσ

pyjσ + H.c. 



(1) + ε X

> α,i,σ

npαiσ 

+ Ud

X

> i

ndi↑ndi↓ + Up

X

> α,i

npαi ↑npαi ↓.

where ciσ is the annihilation operator and c† 

> iσ

is the cre-ation operator for a hole with spin σ in a d orbital ( c = d), a px orbital ( c = px), or a py orbital ( c = py ). The hole number operators are defined by ndiσ = d† 

> iσ

diσ and 

npαiσ = p† 

> αiσ

pαiσ with α = x, y . The first three terms in the Hamiltonian represent hopping processes between neighbor orbital pairs. The first sum runs over all pairs 

⟨ij ⟩ made of nearest-neighbor d-px orbitals (represented by horizontal lines in Fig. 1) while the second sum is over all nearest-neighbor d-py pairs (vertical lines). The third sum runs over all nearest-neighbor px-py orbital pairs (represented by diagonal lines in Fig. 1). The fourth term in the Hamiltonian (1) is the energy difference be-tween a single hole in a p orbital and one in a d orbital. The sum over the indices i and α indicates a sum over all p orbitals. The last two terms represent the Coulomb repulsion between two holes in the same d or p orbital, respectively, and their sums run over all corresponding orbitals. The Hamiltonian (1) comprises six parameters. First, there are the energy difference ε > 0 as well as the on-site Coulomb repulsion strengths Ud > 0 and Up ≥ 0. Second, there are the interatomic hoppings tdpx > 0 along the chains between d and px orbitals, tdpy > 0 along the rungs between d and py orbitals, and tpp between 

px-py orbital pairs. The orbital phases are chosen such that all hopping terms have a constant sign. We use the energy unit tdpx = 1 for numerical results throughout. For superconducting cuprates tdpx = tdpy is of the order of 1 eV. Numerous different values can be found in the litera-ture for these Hamiltonian parameters [2–4, 16–23, 29– 31]. Here we are mostly interested in the pairing proper-ties of the Emery ladders presented in Fig. 1 and the pair binding energy (PBE) is the most important observable in our investigation. Therefore, for each ladder structure we have selected a parameter set that yields a significant PBE for two doped holes. The PBE is defined as 

Epb = 2 E0 (N↑ ± 1, N ↓) − E0 (N↑ ± 1, N ↓ ± 1) 

− E0 (N↑, N ↓) (2)                                                

> Ladder εtdpy UdndEpb
> t2.00 1.1 80.69 0.043 g2.00 1.1 80.69 0.027 r2.00 1.1 80.69 0.040 3-chain 2.25 1.1 40.72 0.057 5-chain 2.77 1.08 4.62 0.75 0.042 tube 2.25 0.8 40.72 0.058 TABLE II. Selected parameters ε,tdpy , and Udfor the Hamil-tonian (1) on each ladder structure. These parameters are used for most results presented here. ndis the probability of finding a hole in the dorbitals in undoped ladders. Epb is the pair binding energy (2) for two doped holes.

where E0 (N↑, N ↓) is the ground-state energy of the lad-der system with Nσ holes of spin σ. The plus sign is used for hole doping and the minus sign for electron doping. A positive PBE indicates that doped particles (holes or electrons) gain energy by building a bound pair. To find parameters for a given ladder, we start from typical val-ues found in the literature [3] and perform a blind search maximization of the PBE over the free Hamiltonian pa-rameters ε, Ud, Up, tdpy , and tpp . Moreover, we require the undoped ladder to be a charge-transfer insulator [32] with the charge ratio of around 3:7 on the p and d or-bitals (see Sec. III). When the PBE is positive, we have always found that it is maximal for Up = 0 and tpp = 0. The other three parameters are slightly different for each ladder structure, confirming the influence of the oxygen sites. However, to make comparison easier we have se-lected a single parameter set for the (t,g,r)-ladders. The selected parameters are listed in Table II. In the noninteracting limit ( Ud = Up = 0) one can di-agonalize the Hamiltonian (1) exactly for the three com-mon ladder structures in Fig. 1(a) [23]. We have not been able to carry out this calculation analytically for the (t,g,r)-ladders because of their lower symmetries. Never-theless, one can easily compute their single-particle en-ergy spectrum numerically. We have checked that two single-particle bands cross the Fermi energy in lightly doped ladders with the parameters ε and tdpy listed in Table II. According to field theory [24] the corresponding interacting system should be a Luther-Emery liquid. In our previous study of the common Emery ladders [23] we found that this generic field-theoretical prediction about two-leg ladders was correct. We can confirm here that this prediction is also correct for the (t,g,r)-ladders, at least for the parameters in Table II. It is well known that the 2D Emery model and the 2D Hubbard model on a square lattice describe the same low-energy physics for a range of Hamiltonian parameters and band fillings based on the Zhang-Rice mapping [3, 33]. Similarly, one can map the common Emery ladders in Fig. 1 onto a Hubbard ladder, which is known to exhibit pair binding and enhanced pairing correlations [4, 28, 34], although additional hopping or interaction terms are nec-essary to recover the low-energy physics of hole-doped 4Emery ladders [4, 23]. The mapping is more complex for the ladder structures in Fig. 1(b) to (d). In the case of the t-ladder one obtains a two-leg ladder with different pa-rameters on each leg. This asymmetric Hubbard ladder has been investigated recently [35–38]. It also exhibits pair binding and enhanced pairing correlations [38]. The g-ladder and the r-ladder can be mapped onto gener-alized Hubbard ladders with parameters that alternate from one site to another or from one rung to another, respectively. The pairing properties of such models have not been studied as far as we know.  

> C. DMRG

For our investigation of the Emery model on two-leg ladders we compute the ground-state properties of the Hamiltonian (1) using the DMRG method [11–15]. This method has been successfully applied to Emery ladders in several studies [4, 16–23]. Our DMRG calculations are carried out using the C ++ version of the ITensor Soft-ware Library for Tensor Network Calculations [39]. We have validated our program using exact diagonalizations of small clusters [40] and an old DMRG code employed in previous studies [4, 16]. We use bond dimensions up to 9000 resulting in discarded weights of the order of 10 −8

or smaller. We always start the DMRG calculation with a lower bond dimension and add a noise term (typically 10 −5), which is progressively reduced down to zero as the bond dimension increases [41]. We investigate systems with even ladder lengths L up to L = 40. To obtain a higher DMRG accuracy, open boundary conditions are used in the leg-direction but we always include oxygen sites at both ladder ends, as illustrated in Fig. 1, be-cause we found that this configuration resulted in weaker boundary effects in our previous work [23]. Nevertheless, finite-size effects may be significant and are discussed when we present our results. In our DMRG calculations the total number of d orbitals is 2 L while the total num-ber of p orbitals is 4 L + 2 for the (t,g,r)-ladders and the 4-chain tube while it is 3 L + 2 and 5 L + 2 for the 3-chain and 5-chain ladders, respectively.  

> III. UNDOPED LADDERS

The undoped parent of superconducting cuprates are antiferromagnetic charge-transfer insulators [3, 27, 32]. This state is reproduced by the undoped 2D Emery model for a wide range of parameters. It is also known that the common Emery ladders are charge-transfer insulators with short-range antiferromagnetic order for appropriate parameters [4, 16]. In this section we demonstrate that the (t,g,r)-ladder structures have similar properties for parameters around those listed in Table II. The gap for charge excitation can be calculated from the ground-state energy E0 for different number of par-              

> FIG. 2. Charge gaps Ec(3) as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters Ud(left panel) and ε(right panel) for undoped (t,g,r)-ladders with length L= 24. The other Hamiltonian parameters are given in Table II. Vertical dashed lines indicate the selected values Ud= 8 and ε= 2, respectively.

ticles using 

Ec =[ E0(N↑ + 1 , N ↓ + 1) + E0(N↑ − 1, N ↓ − 1)] /2

− E0(N↑, N ↓). (3) In Fig. 2, we show the charge gap as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters Ud and ε. Clearly, one can ob-tain charge gaps of the order of tdpx for reasonable param-eter values, as found for the common ladders in previous works [4, 16]. Assuming tdpx ≈ 1eV these charge gaps are compatible with experimental values for cuprate ladder materials [42, 43]. Note that the charge gap of the g-ladder does not vanish for Ud = 0 in Fig. 2(a). Thus our DMRG result agrees with the single-particle spectrum of the Hamiltonian (1) in the noninteracting limit, which corresponds to a band insulator for this undoped lad-der structure. By contrast, the single-particle spectrum of the noninteracting t-ladders and r-ladders is gapless at the Fermi energy corresponding to undoped Emery ladders, in agreement with the vanishing charge gap cal-culated with DMRG for Ud = 0. The local hole density on orbital i is defined as the the ground-state expectation value of the correspond-ing hole number operator, ρi = P 

> σ

⟨nciσ ⟩ with c = d, p .This density provides us with useful information about the charge distribution in the ground state and the low-energy charge excitations. First, we can define the av-erage densities nd over all d orbitals and np over all p

orbitals. In undoped Emery ladders nd + γn p = 1, where 

γ is the ratio of p to d orbitals in the unit cell. For the (t,g,r)-ladders and the four-chain tube γ = 2 but γ = 3 /2and 5 /2 for the three-chain and five-chain ladders, respec-tively. Experimentally, the charge ratio on the p and d

orbitals is around 3 to 7 for YBa 2Cu 3O6 [26]. We have selected Hamiltonian parameters so that γn p/n d repro-duces this ratio. The values of nd are shown in Table II. The charge gap (3) is calculated by adding two holes or two electrons to the undoped ladders. Thus to under-stand the nature of low-energy charge excitations we can 5   

> FIG. 3. Normalized hole density variation (5) of the r-ladder with length L= 24 and the parameter set in Table II: (a) for two added holes and (b) for two removed holes (= two added electrons) with respect to the undoped ladder.

study the corresponding variation of the local density ∆ρi = ρ′ 

> i

− ρi (4) where ρi is the density of the undoped ladder while ρ′

> i

designates the density of the ladder with two holes or two electrons added. In Fig. 3 we show the normalized distribution ¯ρi = ∆ρi

P 

> j

|∆ρj | . (5) for a r-ladder as an example. If the density variation has the same sign for all orbitals i, ¯ ρi(δ) = ∆ ρi(δ)/2. Clearly, added holes primarily occupy p orbitals while holes are mostly removed from d orbitals when electrons are added. Similar results are found for the t-ladders and g-ladders as well as for the common ladders [23]. There-fore, the charge gap, the ground-state charge distribution ratio, and the density variations of low-energy excitations demonstrate that the (t,g,r)-ladders are charge-transfer insulators for parameters around the values given in Ta-ble II. The spin gap can also be calculated from ground-state energies. It is given by 

Es = E0(N↑ + 1 , N ↓ − 1) − E0(N↑, N ↓). (6)                       

> FIG. 4. Spin gaps Es(6) as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters Ud(left panel) and ε(right panel) for undoped (t, g, r)-ladders with a length of L= 24. The other Hamiltonian parameters are given in Table II. Vertical dashed lines indicate the selected values Ud= 8 and ε= 2, respectively.
> FIG. 5. Convergence analysis of (a) spin gaps Esand (b) charge gaps Ecas a function of the inverse of the ladder length
> Lin undoped (t,g,r)-ladders with the parameter sets from Table II. Lines represent quadratic fits of the data for 40 ≥
> L≥16.

Figure 4 shows the spin gap of ladders with length L = 24 as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters Ud and ε.The spin gaps are clearly much smaller than the charge gaps but these values are comparable to those found in the common ladders [4, 16, 18, 19]. However, the spin gaps are barely larger than the finite-size effects, which can be estimated from the results for Ud = 0. As dis-cussed above the single-particle spectra of the t-ladder and the r-ladder are gapless and thus their spin gaps should vanish for Ud = 0 in the thermodynamic limit. By contrast, the noninteracting g-ladder has a signifi-cantly larger spin gap for small Ud because of the band gap in its single-particle spectrum. Therefore, we have analyzed the convergence of the spin gaps as a function of the ladder length using DMRG results up to L = 40. Some scalings are shown in Fig. 5(a) for the (t, g, r)-ladders with their parameter sets in Ta-ble II. Clearly, the spin gaps remain finite in the ther-modynamic limit. Moreover, they are compatible with experimental values for cuprate ladder materials [42, 43] assuming tdpx ≈ 1eV. Figure 5(b) confirms that finite-size effects are negligible for the corresponding charge gaps in undoped ladders. Finally, we have verified that the undoped (t,g,r)-ladders have short-range antiferromagnetic order be-tween holes on d orbitals. For this purpose we have cal-culated the spin-spin correlation function 

S(r) = ⟨Szi Szj ⟩ (7) where Szi = ndi, ↑ − ndi, ↓, i is the index of a d orbital in the middle of the ladder, j designates a d orbital on the same leg, and r is the distance between these two orbitals (in unit of the unit cell of the CuO 2 lattice). In Fig. 6, we show the normalized and staggered correlation functions ˆS(r) = S(r)

S(r = 0) · (−1) r (8) for the (t,g,r)-ladders. As expected for spin-gapped two-leg ladders, ˆS(r) is positive and decays exponentially 6     

> FIG. 6. Spin correlation functions for holes in d-orbitals of undoped CuO 2ladders-(t,g,r) with length L= 40 and the parameter sets from Table II. Lines are guides for the eye.

with the distance r.In summary, the three ladder structures in Fig. 1(b) to (d) are charge-transfer insulators with short-range antiferromagnetic order for the parameter sets in Ta-ble II. Thus the common ladder structures and the novel ones have similar properties when undoped. Although the Hamiltonian parameters have been adjusted, they all lie in a range that is reasonable for superconducting cuprates.  

> IV. DOPED LADDERS

The Emery model on the common ladder structures exhibits a Luther-Emery phase with PBE and enhanced pairing correlations at low doping in the parameter range that is relevant for the superconducting cuprates [4, 16, 18, 19, 23]. In this section we show that the doped (t,g,r)-ladders can also exhibit this phase. The evolution of the charge and spin gaps upon doping                           

> FIG. 7. (a) Charge gap Ecand (b) spin gap Esas functions of doping δin (t,g,r)-ladders with a length L= 24 and the parameter sets from Table II.
> FIG. 8. Convergence analysis of spin and charge gaps as a function of the inverse of the ladder length Lin hole-doped (t,g,r)-ladders with the parameter sets in Table II. (a) Spin gaps Esfor two doped holes ( δ= 1 /L ), (b) spin gaps for a fixed doping δ= 1 /8, (c) charge gaps Ecfor two doped holes (δ= 1 /L ), and (d) charge gaps for a fixed doping δ= 1 /8. Lines represent polynomial fits of the data for 40 ≥L≥16.

is shown in Fig. 7 for the range of −0.5 < δ < 0.5. The charge gap drops from values around tdpx = 1 at δ = 0 to much smaller values for δ̸ = 0. On the contrary, the spin gaps remain of the same order of magnitude for all dop-ings shown. This suggests that the doped ladders have gapless charge excitations but only gapped spin excita-tions as expected for a Luther-Emery phase. However, the charge and spin gaps shown in Fig. 7 have been calculated in finite ladders of length L = 24 and they are again of the order of the finite-size effects for δ̸ = 0. As we can only calculate the gaps of lad-ders up to a length L = 40 with our DMRG code, we cannot analyze the finite-size scaling at fixed low doping. Thus we have analyzed finite-size scalings for two doped holes or electrons corresponding to an infinitesimal dop-ing |δ| = 1 /L → 0+ in the thermodynamic limit L → ∞ 

as well as for a fixed but relatively high doping |δ| = 1 /8. Some results are shown in Fig. 8 for each ladder struc-ture with their parameter sets from Table II. Clearly, the spin gaps remain finite in the thermodynamic limit in Fig. 8(a) and (b) while the charge gaps extrapolate to 0 for 1 /L → 0 in Fig. 8(c) and (d). Therefore, our re-7       

> FIG. 9. Pair binding energy Epb as functions of doping δin doped (t,g,r)-ladders with length L= 24 and their respective parameter sets in Table II.

sults indicate a phase, where all spin excitation modes are gapped but (at least) one charge excitation mode is gapless in the thermodynamic limit, which is compatible with a Luther-Emery phase. The PBE (2) is our primary tool for ascertaining the occurrence of pairing in ladder systems. Figure 9 shows the PBE in the (t,g,r)-ladders for dopings in the range 

−0.5 < δ < 0.5. In most cases the PBE values are pos-itive at low absolute doping |δ| but vanish for larger |δ|.Moreover, they are similar in size to the spin gaps, as found for common ladders in previous works [4, 16]. Con-sequently, these PBE are of the order of the finite-size effects discussed above for the spin gaps. Thus we have also investigated their scaling as a function of the lad-der length for two doped particles and at fixed doping 

|δ| = 1 /8. Some scalings are shown in Fig. 10 for the (t,g,r)-ladders with their selected parameters from Ta-ble II. Obviously, the PBE converge to small but finite values for 1 /L → 0. As we observed for the common ladders [23], the convergence is fast and regular because oxygen sites are included at both ends of all ladder struc-tures, see Fig. 1. The asymmetry between the PBE for electron and hole doping seen in Fig. 9 is a consequence of our approach. We have searched for Hamiltonian parameters that yield significant positive PBE for hole-doped ladders because we are mostly interested in hole-doped superconducting cuprates. This choice often but not always leads to posi-tive PBE for electron-doped ladders too, as shown by the results in Fig. 9. An obvious remedy would be to select other Hamiltonian parameters based on the PBE for two doped electrons. Overall the size of the PBE and its evolution in the (t,g,r)-ladders is comparable to the observations made for the common ladders [4, 23]. To support the evi-dence for pairing provided by the positive PBE, we have computed pairing correlation functions as done in earlier works [16, 18–23]. Here we have focused on the corre-lations between rung singlet pairs made either of two d         

> FIG. 10. Convergence analysis of the pair binding energy
> Epb as a function of the inverse of the ladder length Lin hole doped (t,g,r)-ladders with the parameter sets from Table II. (a) For two doped holes ( δ= 1 /L ) and (b) for a fixed doping
> δ= 1 /8. Lines represent linear fits of the data for 40 ≥L≥
> 16.

orbitals or of one d and one py orbital because we found previously in the common ladder structures [23] that they were the slowest decaying correlations for electron and hole doping, respectively. Their generic form is 

P (r) = 12

D 

∆†

> x

∆x′

E

+

D

∆x∆†

> x′

E 

(9) where either ∆† 

> x

= 12



d†

> j↑

d† 

> j′↓

− d†

> j↓

d†

> j′↑



(10) creates a singlet hole pair in two d orbitals j = ( x, 1) and 

j′ = ( x, 2) of the same rung x, or ∆† 

> x

= 12



d†

> j↑

p† 

> yj ′↓

− d†

> j↓

p†

> yj ′↑



(11) creates a singlet hole pair in a d orbital j = ( x, 1) and the middle py orbital of the same rung x. In both cases r is the distance between the rungs x and x′. The expectation value in (9) is calculated for the doped ground state of the Hamiltonian (1). We have found that pairing correlations P (r) are usu-ally enhanced in the (t,g,r)-ladders when their PBE is positive. Clear results are shown in Fig. 11 for the d-py

rung correlations (11) in hole-doped ladders with length 

L = 40. The correlation functions are normalized with their value at distance r = 4 and shown on a double logarithmic scale as a function of r − 3 to avoid large short range oscillations that would skew the analysis of the asymptotic behavior for r ≫ 1. The correlation func-tions seem to decay as r−1 or slower and thus are clearly enhanced in comparison to noninteracting ladders, where 

P (r) ∼ r−2.The d-d rung correlations (10) are enhanced in the common ladders upon electron doping when the PBE is 8            

> FIG. 11. Pairing correlation functions (9) for singlet pairs on d-pyrungs (11) in hole-doped (t,g,r)-ladders with length
> L= 40, doping δ= 1 /8, and the parameter sets in Table II. Three black lines show a power-law decay ( r−2) −αfor α=1/2,1, and 2.

positive [16, 23]. The picture is less clear for the (t,g,r)-ladder structures discussed here. We have found that the r- and g-ladders usually exhibit enhanced correlations between d-d rung pairs with a r−1 decay. These corre-lations seem to decay faster in the t-ladder but we have renounced drawing a conclusion about a quasi-long-range pairing order due to the limited system size L ≤ 40 that we can calculate with DMRG. As noted in Sec. II, the t-ladder is related to the asymmetric Hubbard ladder, in which the observed pairing could not be explained by the formation of rung pairs alone [38] due to the absence of the reflection symmetry. Thus it is possible that a quasi-long-range pairing order only becomes clearly visible in electron-doped t-ladders with more complex pair struc-tures than (10) and (11) due to their lower symmetry. In all Emery ladders that we have investigated, the PBE is not maximal at tdpy = tdpx . The four-chain tube is a special case because the periodic boundary condition in the rung direction strongly affects the non-interacting band structure and pairing occurs only for 

tdpy < t dpx [23]. In the other five ladder structures, al-lowing tdpy > t dpx leads to larger PBE. However, super-conducting cuprates correspond to a 2D Emery model that is invariant under 90 degree rotations and thus to 

tdpy = tdpx . If we want the ladder structures in Fig. 1(b) to (d) to be supercell of the 2D CuO 2 lattice, tdpy = tdpx 

must be used. Consequently, we have also checked that positive PBE and enhanced pairing correlations occurs in (t,g,r)-ladders with tdpy = tdpx . As an example, Fig. 12 compares the doping dependence of the PBE in r-ladders with tdpy > t dpx and with tdpy = tdpx using the same parameters ε and Ud from Table II. Clearly, there is a re-gion with positive PBE at low doping |δ| in the r-ladder with tdpy = tdpx although this region is narrower than for a r-ladder with tdpy > t dpx . Moreover, we see in Fig. 13 that the decay of pairing correlation functions is similar for both sets of parameters.                 

> FIG. 12. Pair binding energy Epb as function of doping δin r-ladders with length L= 24. The empty blue circles are the results for the parameter set in Table II, which are already shown in Fig. 9. Solid blue circles show the pair binding energy for the same parameters εand Udbut tdpx =tdpy .

In summary, the (t,g,r)-ladder structures exhibit a Luther-Emery phase with a vanishing charge gap, a posi-tive PBE of the same order as the spin gap, and enhanced pairing correlations. This phase occurs at low doping for a range of parameters that is physically reasonable for superconducting cuprates. The pairing strength and its evolution with doping are similar for the novel and the common ladder structures. For a fixed set of Hamilto-nian parameters the pairing strength varies with the lad-der structure showing the influence of the oxygen sites. Consequently, one has to select different parameters for each ladder structure to obtain similar values of gaps or PBE. Pairing is also found for tdpy = tdpx , although it is weaker than for tdpy > t dpx , so that the Luther-Emery phase occurs when the (t,g,r)-ladders can be considered as supercells of the 2D CuO 2 lattice.                        

> FIG. 13. Pairing correlation functions (9) for singlet pairs on d-pyrungs (11) in hole-doped r-ladders with length L= 40 and doping δ= 1 /8. The empty blue circles are the results for the parameter set in Table II, which are already shown in Fig. 11. Solid blue circles show the pairing correlations for the same parameters εand Udbut tdpx =tdpy . Three black lines show a power-law decay ( r−2) −αfor α= 1 /2,1, and 2.

90.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5                   

> 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
> FIG. 14. Relation between the hole occupation ndof cooper
> dorbitals and the hole occupation 2 npof oxygen porbitals on a ladder with length L= 24 when the doping δis var-ied. Results are shown for the (t,g,r)-ladder structures and two common ladder structures (3-chain and 5-chain) using the parameter sets from Table II. For (t,g,r)-ladders the thick diagonal line corresponds to undoped ladders ( δ= 0) while the lower two diagonal lines correspond to constant electron dopings ( δ=−1/8 and −1/4) and the upper two diagonal lines indicate constant hole dopings ( δ= +1 /8 and +1 /4).
> V. CHARGE DISTRIBUTION

The question of the charge distribution between Cu and O atoms in the superconducting cuprate layers has attracted a lot of attention recently. Experimental data reveal a correlation between the average occupation np of the planar p orbitals of O atoms and the critical temper-ature for superconductivity when varying the chemical doping or the applied pressure [25, 26]. Several theo-retical studies gave been carried out to determine the charge distribution between Cu and O orbitals and ver-ify the observed correlation between np and the strength of the superconducting state. They include studies of the electronic version of the Emery model on a CuO 2

lattice using cluster methods [5–7] and a study of the hole Hamiltonian (1) on lattices with up to 12 × 12 sites using a quantum Monte Carlo method [8]. An important issue is the relation between np and the average occupation nd of the planar d orbitals of Cu atoms. In the ladder models considered here they ful-fill the sum rule 

nd + γn p = 1 + δ (12) with the the ratio γ of p to d orbitals (see Sec. III) and the hole doping rate δ. In the superconducting cuprates 

γ = 2 and thus recent studies often discuss nd as a func-tion of 2 np [6–8, 26]. Figure 14 shows the relation be-tween nd and 2 np in the (t,g,r)-ladder structures with the Hamiltonian parameters from Table II when the doping rate δ is varied. We clearly see that for electron dop-ing most holes are removed from the d orbitals while for             

> FIG. 15. Relation between the PBE Epb and the oxygen occupation 2 npwhen the doping δis varied in (t,g,r)-ladders with L= 24 and the parameters from Table II. The vertical dashed line shows 2 npfor undoped ladders ( δ= 0) with elec-tron doping ( δ < 0) on the left-hand side and hole doping on the right-hand side ( δ > 0).

hole doping most holes occupy p orbitals, resulting in two lines with different slopes for δ < 0 and δ > 0. This is the behavior expected for a charge-transfer insulator. In the extreme case tdpx = tdpy = 0 with Ud > ε , one would obtain a vertical line for δ < 0 and a horizontal one for δ > 0. By contrast, a pure Mott-Hubbard insula-tor yields a straight line (around δ = 0), which becomes vertical in the extreme case tdpx = tdpy = 0 for Ud < ε .Note that this behavior does not give any evidence about the existence of a Luther-Emery phase. We have indeed verified that the same behavior occurs in the Luttinger liquid phase that is reached when we increase the ratio 

tdpy /t dpx [23]. For comparison, in Fig. 14 we also show the results obtained for the three-chain and five-chain ladders with their respective parameter sets in Table II. First, we note that all results are qualitatively similar with two linear segments, which again just reflects charge-transfer insula-tors. However, there are clear quantitative differences be-tween the (t,g,r)-ladder structures and the two common ones. In particular, the corners between the two linear segments do not lie on the main diagonal for the three and five-chain ladders although they correspond to un-doped ladders. This discrepancy can be easily corrected if we plot nd as a function of γn p with γ = 3 /2 and 5 /2, respectively. However, this rescaling also changes the slope of the linear segments and thus impede the anal-ysis of the relations between charge distribution, PBE, and Hamiltonian parameters. Therefore, preserving the ratio of Cu to O atoms is a clear advantage of the (t,g,r)-ladder structures over the common ones when studying these relations. To illustrate the pairing strength in relation to the charge distribution, Fig. 15 presents a parametric plot of the PBE and the oxygen occupation 2 np when the doping is varied. The same data are shown as Epb versus 10           

> FIG. 16. (a) Relation between the PBE Epb and the oxygen occupation 2 npwhen doping is varied as in Fig. 15 but for a t-ladder with various interaction strengths Ud.The vertical lines indicate 2 npfor undoped ladders. (b) Relation between the copper occupation ndand the oxygen occupation 2 npas in Fig. 14 but for the same t-ladder as in (a).

δ in Fig. 9. As explained in Sec. II B the undoped ladders correspond to 2 np ≈ 0.3 due to our choice of Hamiltonian parameters (Table II), in agreement with various super-conducting cuprates such as YBa 2Cu 3O6+ δ . In Fig. 15 we observe a maximum of the PBE as a function of the oxygen occupation in the range 0 .3 ≲ 2np ≲ 0.4. This behavior is similar to the parabolic-like depen-dence of the critical temperature on the oxygen occu-pation that is found experimentally in superconducting cuprates [25, 26]. Previous studies have shown that the relation between Hamiltonian parameters and pairing strength is quite complex in Emery ladders [4, 16–23]. In contrast, the charge distribution between Cu and O orbitals seems to vary rather systematically. As a first example, Fig. 16(a) presents a parametric plot of the PBE and the oxygen oc-cupation when the doping δ varies for three values of the interaction Ud in a t-ladder. We observe that a larger Ud

increases the pairing strength in hole doped ladders but reduces it in electron doped ladders. However, the overall relation between Epb and 2 np is qualitatively similar for the range 4 ≤ Ud ≤ 12. In particular, the oxygen occu-pation of the undoped ladder varies little with Ud in that range, as shown by the vertical lines in Fig. 16(a). Fig-ure 16(b) shows the evolution of the charge distribution between p and d orbitals as δ varies for the same ladders. We see that the slope of nd versus 2 np is slightly lower for stronger Ud in hole-doped ladders but little change occurs for electron doping. Clearly, doped holes tend to occupy p orbitals to avoid the energy cost Ud of doubly-occupied d orbitals and this trend becomes stronger for higher Ud. In contrast, electrons doping corresponds to removing holes from singly-occupied d orbitals and thus              

> FIG. 17. (a) Parametric plot of the PBE Epb and the oxygen occupation 2 npwhen doping δis varied as in Fig. 15 but for a t-ladder with various energy differences εbetween oxygen p-orbitals and copper d-orbitals. The vertical lines indicate 2 np
> for undoped ladders. (b) Copper occupation ndas a function of oxygen occupation 2 npas in Fig. 14 but for the same t-ladder as in (a).

the relation between nd and 2 np remains largely unaf-fected by the value of Ud.As a second example, Fig. 17(a) presents another para-metric plot of the PBE versus the oxygen occupation in a t-ladder but for three values of the energy difference 

ε between p and d orbitals. We observe an increase of the maximal PBE when ε becomes smaller but the cor-responding occupation 2 np of the p orbitals also shifts toward larger values. This shift also occurs in the un-doped ladders as shown by vertical lines in Fig. 17(a). Figure 17(b) shows the evolution of the charge distribu-tion between p and d orbitals for the same ladders. As expected, we observe a shift toward a higher occupation of d orbitals when ε is larger. The slope of nd as a func-tion of 2 np becomes smaller for hole doping but larger for electron doping with increasing ε, and thus tends toward the behavior predicted for a charge-transfer insulator in the limit Ud > ε ≫ tdpx , t dpy .We observe a similar dependence of the charge distri-bution as a function of the Hamiltonian parameters in all three (t,g,r)-ladder structures. (Nevertheless, the pairing strength depends on the structure as illustrated by the PBE values in Table II.) A similar behavior of the charge distribution is observed in 2D Emery clusters [8]. Our re-sults also agree qualitatively with the findings reported for the electronic version of the 2D Emery model [6, 7]. However, when comparing to these results, one has to take into account that varying Ud at fixed ε in our hole Hamiltonian corresponds to varying Ud at fixed Ud − ∆in the electronic Hamiltonian, where ∆ is the energy dif-ference between one electron in a p orbital and one elec-tron in a d orbital. These findings suggest that material-11 specific parameters for the Emery model could be deter-mined by comparison with first-principles simulations or experimental data for nd and np [26]. Indeed, the charge distribution of the undoped system determines the en-ergy difference ε between p and d orbitals while the slope of nd versus 2 np upon hole doping determines the inter-action Ud. This comparison is only possible for Emery ladders preserving the Cu to O ratio, such as the ones shown in Fig. 1(b)-(d).  

> VI. CONCLUSION

Studying strongly-correlated ladder systems is often seen as a way towards understanding their 2D parent sys-tems. In the case of the Emery model for the CuO 2 plane, however, the appropriate choice of ladder structures and model parameters is an issue. For simple models such as the single-orbital Hubbard model on a square lattice, there is an unambiguous two-leg ladder sublattice that is a supercell of the 2D lattice. For the Emery model, how-ever, we can define several different two-leg ladder struc-tures depending on the p orbitals taken into account and the boundary conditions in the rung direction. In our previous paper [23] we showed that the ladder structures used in other works either did not have the right ratio of Cu to O atoms or did not exhibit a Luther-Emery phase for isotropic hoppings. In this work, we have investigated the Emery model on three ladder-like lattice structures with two legs of copper 

d-orbitals that are supercell of the CuO 2 plane and thus preserve the ratio of copper to oxygen atoms. For a range of parameters that is physically reasonable for cuprates these ladders describe the same physics as the common ladders studied in previous works despite their lower sym-metry. They are charge-transfer insulators at a filling of one hole per Cu atom but exhibit a Luther-Emery phase with positive pair binding energy and enhanced pairing correlations at low electron and hole doping. We have explicitly verified that pairing also occurs for isotropic hoppings. The main advantage of the (t,g,r)-ladder structures is that they can reproduce the distribution of charge be-tween the copper d orbitals and the oxygen p orbitals that is found in the Emery model on the 2D CuO 2 lattice. Thus we can describe the relations between charge distri-bution, doping, pairing strength, and model parameters in the Luther-Emery phase of doped charge-transfer insu-lators. Moreover, comparison becomes possible with ex-perimental results for the charge distribution. This is not possible with the common ladder structures due to the in-correct Cu to O ratio or the absence of the Luther-Emery phase for isotropic parameters. Therefore, we think that the ladder structures presented in this work constitute a better approach for studying pairing in the Emery model than the common ladder structures used so far if one aims to investigate the physics of high-temperature supercon-ducting cuprates. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The calculations were carried out on the compute cluster at the Leibniz University of Hannover, which is funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG, German Research Foundation), project number INST 187/742-1 FUGG. 

> DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

The data that support the findings of this article are openly available [44].                             

> [1] J. G. Bednorz and K. A. M¨ uller, Possible high Tc super-conductivity in the Ba-La-Cu-O system, Zeitschrift f¨ ur Physik B Condensed Matter 64 , 189 (1986). [2] V. J. Emery, Theory of high-T csuperconductivity in ox-ides, Phys. Rev. Lett. 58 , 2794 (1987). [3] E. Dagotto, Correlated electrons in high-temperature su-perconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. 66 , 763 (1994). [4] E. Jeckelmann, D. J. Scalapino, and S. R. White, Com-parison of different ladder models, Phys. Rev. B 58 , 9492 (1998). [5] N. Kowalski, S. S. Dash, P. S´ emon, D. S´ en´ echal, and A.-M. Tremblay, Oxygen hole content, charge-transfer gap, covalency, and cuprate superconductivity, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 118 , e2106476118 (2021). [6] L.-B. St-Cyr and D. S´ en´ echal, Effect of the Coulomb re-pulsion and oxygen level on charge distribution and su-perconductivity in the Emery model for cuprates super-conductors, SciPost Phys. Core 8, 043 (2025). [7] G. L. Reaney, N. Kowalski, A.-M. S. Tremblay, and G. Sordi, Charge gap and charge redistribution among copper and oxygen orbitals in the normal state of the Emery model, Phys. Rev. B 112 , 125106 (2025). [8] Y. Peng and M. Jiang, Interplay between Hubbard inter-action and charge transfer energy in three-orbital Emery model (2025). Eprint arXiv:2509.11028. [9] E. Dagotto, J. Riera, and D. Scalapino, Superconductiv-ity in ladders and coupled planes, Phys. Rev. B 45 , 5744 (1992). [10] E. Dagotto and T. M. Rice, Surprises on the way from one- to two-dimensional quantum magnets: The ladder materials, Science 271 , 618 (1996). [11] S. R. White, Density matrix formulation for quan-tum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. Lett. 69 , 2863 (1992). [12] S. R. White, Density-matrix algorithms for quantum renormalization groups, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 10345 (1993). [13] U. Schollw¨ ock, The density-matrix renormalization group, Rev. Mod. Phys. 77 , 259 (2005).

12 

[14] E. Jeckelmann, Density-matrix renormalization group al-gorithms, Computational Many-Particle Physics , edited by H. Fehske, R. Schneider, and A. Weiße, volume 739 of Lecture Notes in Physics (Springer, Berlin, 2008), chap-ter 21, pp. 597–619. [15] U. Schollw¨ ock, The density-matrix renormalization group in the age of matrix product states, Ann. Phys. (NY) 326 , 96 (2011). [16] S. Nishimoto, E. Jeckelmann, and D. J. Scalapino, Dif-ferences between hole and electron doping of a two-leg CuO ladder, Phys. Rev. B 66 , 245109 (2002). [17] S. Nishimoto, E. Jeckelmann, and D. J. Scalapino, Current-current correlations in the three-band model for two-leg CuO ladders: Density-matrix renormalization group study, Phys. Rev. B 79 , 205115 (2009). [18] J.-P. Song, S. Mazumdar, and R. T. Clay, Absence of Luther-Emery superconducting phase in the three-band model for cuprate ladders, Phys. Rev. B 104 , 104504 (2021). [19] J.-P. Song, S. Mazumdar, and R. T. Clay, Doping asym-metry in the three-band Hamiltonian for cuprate ladders: Failure of the standard model of superconductivity in cuprates, Phys. Rev. B 107 , L241108 (2023). [20] H.-C. Jiang, Pair density wave in the doped three-band Hubbard model on two-leg square cylinders, Phys. Rev. B 107 , 214504 (2023). [21] H.-C. Jiang and T. P. Devereaux, Pair density wave and superconductivity in a kinetically frustrated doped Emery model on a square lattice, Frontiers in Electronic Materials 3 (2023). [22] L. Yang, T. P. Devereaux, and H.-C. Jiang, Recovery of a Luther-Emery phase in the three-band Hubbard ladder with longer-range hopping, Phys. Rev. B 110 , 014511 (2024). [23] G. Polat and E. Jeckelmann, Influence of oxygen or-bitals and boundary conditions on the pairing behavior in the Emery model for doped ladders, Phys. Rev. B 111 ,125137 (2025). [24] T. Giamarchi, Quantum Physics in One Dimension , In-ternational Series of Monographs on Physics (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 2003). [25] D. Rybicki, M. Jurkutat, S. Reichardt, C. Kapusta, and J. Haase, Perspective on the phase diagram of cuprate high-temperature superconductors, Nature Communica-tions 7, 11413 (2016). [26] M. Jurkutat, C. Kattinger, S. Tsankov, R. Reznicek, A. Erb, and J. Haase, How pressure enhances the criti-cal temperature of superconductivity in YBa 2Cu 3O6+ y ,Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 120 ,e2215458120 (2023). [27] D. J. Scalapino, A common thread: The pairing inter-action for unconventional superconductors, Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 , 1383 (2012). [28] R. M. Noack, S. R. White, and D. J. Scalapino, Corre-lations in a two-chain Hubbard model, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

73 , 882 (1994). [29] M. Ogata and H. Shiba, Holes in two-dimensional CuO 2

system -pairing mechanism emerging from small-cluster studies-, Journal of the Physical Society of Japan 57 ,3074 (1988). [30] R. L. Martin, Electronic localization in the cuprates, Phys. Rev. B 53 , 15501 (1996). [31] K. Sheshadri, D. Malterre, A. Fujimori, and A. Chainani, Connecting the one-band and three-band Hubbard mod-els of cuprates via spectroscopy and scattering experi-ments, Phys. Rev. B 107 , 085125 (2023). [32] J. Zaanen and A. M. Ole´ s, Canonical perturbation the-ory and the two-band model for high-Tc superconductors, Phys. Rev. B 37 , 9423 (1988). [33] F. C. Zhang and T. M. Rice, Effective Hamiltonian for the superconducting Cu oxides, Phys. Rev. B 37 , 3759 (1988). [34] R. M. Noack, N. Bulut, D. J. Scalapino, and M. G. Zacher, Enhanced dx2−y2 pairing correlations in the two-leg Hubbard ladder, Phys. Rev. B 56 , 7162 (1997). [35] H. Yoshizumi, T. Tohyama, and T. Morinari, Induced Or-der in Nonequivalent Two-Leg Hubbard Ladder, Progress of Theoretical Physics 122 , 943 (2009). [36] A. Abdelwahab, E. Jeckelmann, and M. Hohenadler, Ground-state and spectral properties of an asymmetric Hubbard ladder, Phys. Rev. B 91 , 155119 (2015). [37] A. Abdelwahab and E. Jeckelmann, Correlations and confinement of excitations in an asymmetric Hubbard ladder, Eur. Phys. J. B 91 , 207 (2018). [38] A. Abdelwahab, G. Polat, and E. Jeckelmann, Pair bind-ing and enhancement of pairing correlations in asymmet-ric Hubbard ladders, Phys. Rev. B 107 , 125117 (2023). [39] M. Fishman, S. R. White, and E. M. Stoudenmire, The ITensor Software Library for Tensor Network Calcula-tions, SciPost Phys. Codebases 4 (2022). [40] A. Weiße and H. Fehske, Exact diagonalization tech-niques, Computational Many-Particle Physics , edited by H. Fehske, R. Schneider, and A. Weiße, volume 739 of Lecture Notes in Physics (Springer, Berlin, 2008), chap-ter 18–19, pp. 529–577. [41] S. R. White, Density matrix renormalization group algo-rithms with a single center site, Phys. Rev. B 72 , 180403 (2005). [42] Z. V. Popovi´ c, M. J. Konstantinovi´ c, V. A. Ivanov, O. P. Khuong, R. Gaji´ c, A. Vietkin, and V. V. Moshchalkov, Optical properties of the spin-ladder com-pound Sr 14 Cu 24 O41 , Phys. Rev. B 62 , 4963 (2000). [43] A. Gozar, G. Blumberg, B. S. Dennis, B. S. Shastry, N. Motoyama, H. Eisaki, and S. Uchida, Spin dynamics of Sr 14 Cu 24 O41 two-leg ladder studied by Raman spec-troscopy, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 , 197202 (2001). [44] G. Polat and E. Jeckelmann, Pairing and charge distri-bution in Emery ladders preserving the ratio of Cu to O atoms [data set], LUIS (2026), DOI:10.25835/jdd1qdse.