Title: 2603.08688v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2603.08688v1

Published Time: Tue, 10 Mar 2026 02:40:57 GMT

Number of Pages: 30

Markdown Content:
Discovery of intertwined pair density and charge density wave orders in UTe 2

Zhen Zhu 1, Yudi Huang 1, Julian May -Mann 2, Kaiming Liu 1, Zheyu Wu 3, Shanta R. Saha 4,

Johnpierre Paglione 4,5 , Alexander G. Eaton 3, Andrej Cabala 6, Michal Vališka 6, Eduardo 

Fradkin 1,7 , and Vidya Madhavan 1,5 *

1. Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, Grainger College of 

Engineering , University of Illinois at Urbana -Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA. 

2. Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanfor d, CA 94305, USA .

3. Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United 

Kingdom .

4. Maryland Quantum Materials Center, Department of Physics, University of 

Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. 

5. Canadian Institute for Advanced Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

6. Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Department of 

Condensed Matter Physics, Ke Karlovu 5, Prague 2, 121 16, Czech Republic .

7. Institute for Condensed Matter Theory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, USA. 

* vm1@illinois.edu 

Abstract: 

The strongly correlated spin -triplet superconductor UTe 2 hosts an unusual landscape 

of magnetic -field -sensitive charge density wave (CDW) phases, positioning it as a 

compelling system for studying intertwined electronic orders. A central challenge is 

determining whether the observed charge modulations arise fro m a triplet pair density 

wave (PDW) order and , if so, how the anisotropic magnetic field response of triplet 

superconductivity is manifested in the CDW response. Here, using a scanning 

tunneling microscop e equipped with a vector magnetic field, we systemat ically 

investigate the evolution and interrelation of distinct CDW orders . Complementing the 

previously identified incommensurate CDW peaks ( qi=1,2,3 ), we resolve an additional 

set of nondispersive modulations ( pi=1,2,3 and h1,2 ) with distinct temperature and 

magnetic field dependencies. The pi CDW peaks vanish near Tc, while the qi peaks 

survive well above Tc but are progressively suppressed by magnetic field in an 

anisotropic manner . The critical fields of the qi peaks mirror the directional hierarchy of 

Hc2 , which suggest s a PDW is present above the bulk Tc. This is consistent with a 

Landau free -energy picture where PDWs with wavevectors pi form above the bulk Tc,

leading to composite CDW orders with wavevector qᵢ. Below Tc, the coupling of PDW s

and uniform superconductivity leads to the pi CDWs. Together, these findings establish 

UTe 2 as a rare platform where both the parent PDW and descendant orders are directly 

resolved, enabling access to both the fundamental and emergent manifestations of 

PDW physics. Main text: 

Intertwined electronic orders represent a central theme in correlated quantum 

materials, where multiple orders like electronic nematicity, superconductivity, charge 

density wave (CDW), and spin density wave (SDW ) do not merely coexist or compete 

but arise from a common microscopic origin 1-4. Unlike conventional competition or 

coexistence between different phases , intertwined states often emerge in the 

overlapping regions of the phase diagram, exhibit comparable onset temperatures, 

and are linked by mutual coupling and symmetry constraints. A prominent 

manifestation of this paradigm is the pair density wave (PDW) state , a superconducting 

phase wi th a spatially modulated order parameter , which intertwines superconductivity 

and CDW order .

Accumulating experimental evidence supports the presence of PDW states in a variety 

of correlated systems , including cuprates 5-7, transition metal dichalcogenides 8-10 ,

kagome metals 11,12, and iron -based superconductors 13,1 4. In particular, the heavy -

fermion compound UTe 2 has emerged as a promising platform for realizing this exotic 

order. UTe 2 is a spin -triplet superconductor with an unconventional p airing mechanism 

and an extremely large and anisotropic upper critical field ( 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑏

> 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑐

> 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑎

), reaching 

well beyond the Pauli limit 15. Early -stage UTe 2 crystals exhibit superconductivity with 

Tc ≈ 1.6K, field -reinforced superconductivity beyond 30 T 16, and signature of chiral 

spin -triplet pairing 17. Next -generation crystals grown by molten flux methods exhibit an 

enhanced Tc ≈ 2.1 K18-20 . Benefiting from their ultrahigh residual resistivity ratios and 

exceptional crystallinity, these samples provide an ideal platform that is less 

susceptible to extrinsic effects and point to a strengthened spin -triplet pairing 

component , as evidenced by higher Tc, increased Hc2 along all three crystallographic 

axes , and an expanded high -field superconducting phase 21.

An unusual incommensurate CDW order (qi, i =1, 2, 3) was observed in the early -stage 

UTe 2 samples, which melt s near Hc2 , suggest ing that the observed charge modulations 

arise from PDWs 22-25. In this picture, spin -triplet PDW s with momentum qi, together 

with uniform spin -triplet superconductivity, naturally produce CDW s at momentum qi.

This framework accounts for the magnetic -field sensitivity of the CDW s through vortex -

induced dislocations. However, several puzzles remain. For instance, if the CDW s are 

generated by the combination of PDWs and uniform superconductivity , they would be 

expected to vanish once uniform sup erconductivity is lost . Y et the field -sensitive CDW s

persist well above Tc up to ~5K. 

Recent studies have offered new insights, but the interpretation of the data has varied 

across the community. The common feature between groups is the presence of 

spectral signatures with reduced wave vectors , distinct from the previously known CDW 

order 26-28 (here labeled as h1, h2, p1, p2, p3). Peaks at p1, p2 and p3 (henceforth referred 

to as pi) we re observed in applied magnetic fields at 30mK temperatures and attributed 

to primitive CDW components 26 owing to their commensurate relationship with q1, q2and q3, as each exhibits a wavevector of half the corresponding qi. On the other hand 

in different stud ies , peaks at h1, h2 and p3 were seen at energies within the 

superconducting gap and attributed to quasiparticle interference (QPI) from in -gap 

states along the nodal direction 27,2 8. The microscopic origin of these multiple 

momentum space signatures and their relationship to the bulk homogeneous 

superconducting state is thus an important open question which has direct 

consequences for our understanding of the superconducting state. 

In this work, we address these questions by studying next -generation UTe 2 samples 

(Tc ≈ 2.1K , Supplementary Fig. 1 ) using a vector -magnetic -field s canning tunnelin g

microscope (STM). With this capability, we systematically investigate the temperature 

and field evolution of the established and newly emergent CDW orders in UTe 2. The 

h1,2 and p3 vectors are intrinsic to the zero -field state , whereas p1 and p2 are induced 

by applied magnetic fields. Energy dependent dI/dV maps establish that the h1,2 and p3

peaks , with wavevectors comparable to previous studies 27,2 8, remain nondispersive at 

energies well above the superconducting gap , confirm ing their classification as CDW 

modulations . We further show that the zero -field p3 and field -induced p1,2 peaks 

possess wavevectors that are half of q3 and q1, 2 . While this wavevector relationship 

may suggest that qi is a harmonic of pi26, the differing onset temperatures are 

incompatible with a simple harmonic interpretation. Notably, the p2 and p3 peaks are 

strongly coupled to superconductivity and vanish near the bulk Tc, while the qi peaks 

survive to higher temperatures. While the p1 peak temperature dependence was not 

tracked, it is related by symmetry to the other peaks and is expected to show a similar 

temperature dependence as p2 and p3.

Our v ector magnetic field respo nse of the peaks conducted both below and above the 

superconducting Tc uncover additional clues to the ir origin. Taken together and in 

combination with Landau free energy , our new data provide a refined explanation for 

both the newly observed and previously identified CDW peaks in terms of spin -triplet 

PDWs with wavevectors pi and uniform spin triplet superconductivity . In t he new 

explanation , the PDW s have wavevectors pi. The qi CDWs arise purely from the PDWs ,

and the pi CDWs arise from the combination of PDW and uniform superconductivity a.

Th is explains why the pi peaks only show up in the STM data below the bulk Tc, and 

accounts for the hierarchical magnetic field destruction of the qi CDW s at 4.2K. The 

spin -triplet nature of the PDW and uniform superconductivity can also account for the 

fact that p1 and p2 are induced by a magnetic field .

UTe 2 crystallizes in an orthorhombic structure (space group Immm), in which Te atoms 

form chains along the crystallographic b axis , while U dimers oriented along the c axis 

assemble into chains extending along the a axis (Fig. 1a and b ). STM measurement 

on a cleaved surface of UTe 2 reveals quasi -one -dimensional Te chains along the a axis 

(Fig. 1c), consistent with previous studies 17,2 3. Each U atom is coordinated by two       

> aIn the previous definition 23, the PDWs had wavevector qiand the qiCDWs were taken to arise from
> the combination of PDW sand uniform superconductivity.

inequivalent tellurium atoms, Te1 (light blue) and Te2 (dark blue). Owing to the 

centrosymmetric nature of the bulk structure, UTe 2 can cleave alon g either the (01 -1) 

or (011) surface 17,23, leading to surface terminations with Te1 and Te2 chains swapping 

their relative positions . On both cleavage surfaces, the Te1 chains appear slightly 

elevated compared to the Te2 ch ai ns , serving as a distinguishing feature 17. Based on 

the spatial arrangement of Te1 and Te2 atoms observed in the high -resolution 

topograph y (inset of Fig. 1c) and fo llowing established criteria, we tentatively identify 

the cleavage plane in this study as (01 -1). This identification in turn allows us to 

establish the correspondence between the applied magnetic field directions and the 

crystallographic axes in the subse quent analysis. 

The atomically resolved image acquired on a defect -free area below Tc reveals chains 

of Te1 atoms along a-axis (Fig. 1c), and the corresponding fast Fourier transform (FFT) 

is shown in Fig. 1d. Beyond the previously reported qi CDW orders (marked by 

squares), a new set of h1,2 and p3 peaks emerge at zero field (marked by blue /red 

triangles and a green circle ). By performing spectroscopic imaging via dI/dV maps, we 

obtain the real -space distribution of the local density of states (LDOS), whose FFTs 

capture the energy -dependent spectral weight in momentum space , enabling a

distinction between quasiparticle interference and CDW signatures . Figures 1e -g

presen t the FFTs of dI/dV maps at the indicated energies, including one within and two 

well above the superconducting gap , where the h1,2 and p3 peaks are clearly visible 

(see Supplementary Fig s. 2 and 3 for the full dataset). We investigate the energy 

dependence of the h1,2 and p3 peaks, by performing line cuts along the three 

momentum direction s (Fig.1e) . The se peaks remain nondispersive across the 

measured energy range extending to energies far above the superconducting gap 

(Fig.1 i-k) , manifesting their origin as CDW orders rather than their previous 

identification as QPI features 27,2 8. The wavevectors of h1,2 and p3 order s are 

{𝒉 𝟏 , 𝒉 𝟐 , 𝒑 𝟑 } = {(−0.26 , 0.14 ), (0.26 , −0.14 ), (0, −0.28 )}|𝑞 𝑇𝑒 | , where |𝑞 𝑇𝑒 | denotes the 

Bragg wavevector of the Te lattice. All three vectors have comparable magnitudes and 

together form a hexagonal lattice –like periodic modulation in real space 

(Supplementary Fig . 4). Interestingly, the line profile extracted along line 3 in Fig. 1e 

shows that the magnitude of the p3 peak is approximately half that of q3 (Fig. 1h). The 

significance of this relationship will be discussed later in the paper. It is also worth 

noting that the interfe re nce of defects most likely hindered the observation of the h1,2 

and p3 CDW order s in previous studies 22-24. This is because i n reciprocal space, defect -

induced electronic states can generate intense spectral weight near zero momentum ,

with momentum components similar to those of the h1,2 and p3 wavevectors, thereby 

smearing or obscuring these intrinsic CDW features (Supplementary Fig .5 ). 

A systematic, temperature -dependent study was carried out to determine the onset 

temperature s of the newly identified h1,2 and p3 order s. Since the CDW transition in 

UTe 2 currently lacks a clear bulk signature 29-31, STM enables a direct characterization 

of the surface CDW evolution with temperature in a momentum -resolved manner .

Figure s 2a –g present a series of normalized FFTs of STM topographies acquired at the indicated temperatures. Across the superconducting transition at Tc= 2.1K, the p3

CDW peak exhibits the most significant change among all CDW components, being 

strongly suppressed above the transition temperature . This is clearly reflected in 

Fi gs. 2h and i, which show the h1,2 , p 3 and qi peak intensities extracted from the FFTs .

The qi CDW intensit ies decrease with temperature and are markedly reduced at 4.8 K ,

consistent with our previous report 23. In contrast, t he p3 CDW intensity decreases 

progressively with increasing temperature , becoming close to the background above 

Tc. This sugges ts a relationship between p3 and the uniform superconducting order .

Equally importantly, the p3 and q3 peaks emerge at different onset temperatures, which 

strongly indicat es that they are not harmonically related wavevectors as was previously 

hypothesized 26, and instead points to a different mechanism governing the interplay 

between the pi and qi peaks . We will investigate this possibility in the remainder of the 

paper. 

Before proceeding with further discussions on the possible origins of the p3 peak, we 

look for signatures of p1 and p2 peaks which were previously observed in magnetic 

fields at 30mK temperatures 26. To this end, we employ a vector magnet that enables 

independent tuning of all three magnetic field components, with their orientations 

relative to the crystallographic axes of UTe 2 defined throughout this work as illustrated 

in Fig. 1b. Specifically, the laboratory axis By is aligned with crystallographic a-axis, 

while Bx and Bz are tilted counterclockwise by approximately 12 ° from the c- and b-

axes, respectively (see Supplementary Fig. 6 for details ). For simplicity, we label the 

magnetic field directions Bx, By, Bz, as Bc* , Ba, Bb* to reflect their approximate alignment 

with the crystallographic c-, a-, and b-axes, respectively. This field -axis convention is 

based on the assumption that the sample cleaved along the (01 -1) plane. We n ote that 

density functional theory calculations indicate that Te2 p orbitals dominate the density 

of states at the Fermi level 32, suggesting that the visually dominant chains in the STM 

topography may correspond to Te2 atoms, implying a cleavage along the (011) plane 

(Supplementary Fig . 6). This would m odify the relative orientation between the 

laboratory and crystallographic axes, but Bb* and Bc* remain primarily aligned with the 

b- and c-axes, leaving our conclusions unchanged. 

Figure s 3a–d present the FFTs of topographic images acquired at 300 mK under the 

indicated magnetic field directions and magnitudes. Compared with the zero -field 

result (Fig. 3a) , a consistent feature across field configurations in Fig s. 3b -d is the 

emergence of a field -induced p2 peak, whose wavevector magnitude is half that of q2.

Energy -dependent measurements further confirm that the p2 peak, originates from a 

CDW order (see Supplementary Fig. 7 for details). The CDW peaks observed at 0 T (h1,

h2, p3, q1, q2, q3) and those appearing under finite magnetic fields (p1 and p2) are 

summarized in Fig. 3e, which illustrates their distribution in momentum space. The 

analogous wavevector relations, 𝑝 2,3 = 1/2𝑞 2,3 , suggest that the p2 and p3 CDWs 

share a common origin . To explore this connection, we perform systematic vector field -

and temperature - dependent measurements , focusing on the evolution of the p2 order .We first construct the field -temperature phase diagram with magnetic field along b* 

(Bb* ) b y plotting the intensity of the p2 pea k. As seen in Fig . 3f (see full dataset in 

Supplementary Fig. 8), at 300 mK, the p2 peak appears at an onset field Honset of ~ 5T

and persists up to 8T. As the temperature increases to 1.6 K, the field range sustaining 

p2 shrinks to approximately 5 –6 T, and its intensity becomes weaker. The field at which 

the intensity is suppressed below the background ( Hsup ) decrease s with increasing 

temperature, and the p2 feature disappears entirely when the temperature exceeds Tc

(i.e., 2.5K) . Similar measurements under Ba and Bc* show a comparable trend (Fig s.

3g an d h). For a given Ba magnetic field, the p2 peak progressively weake ns with 

increasing temperature and disappears above Tc (Fig. 3g, see full dataset in 

Supplementary Fig. 9) . At 300 mK, the p2 peak strengthens with increasing Bc* up to 2 

T (Fig. 3h, see full dataset in Supplementary Fig. 10 ). These results indicate that the 

field -induced p2 modulation exhibits a similar temperature dependence to the zero -field 

p3 peak and is connected to uniform superconductivity. Honset for p2 is substantially 

larger for fields along b* than along a and c* (~ 0.5 T at 300mK ), indicating a higher 

threshold for the emergence of p2 near the b axis, consistent with the b-axis being the 

magnetic hard axis of UTe 2 and host ing the largest Hc2 . Additionally , the p1 CDW peak, 

which is the mirror counterpart of p2, emerges under Bb* in another field of view 

(Supplementary Fig. 11) . Finally, we note that in contrast to the p3 and p2 CDWs , the 

qi CDW s persists under the same field conditions at temperatures below 2.5 K. 

So far , we have established : (i) that all h1,2 and p1,2,3 orders are visible at energies far 

above the superconducting gap and do not disperse which suggests that they are not 

related to nodal in -gap QPI ; (ii ) p3 is visible in zero field while p1,2 emerge at a finite 

field; and (iii) the differing magnetic field behavior and onset temperatures of the qi and 

pi orders indicate that despite their commensurate relationship i.e., 𝑝 𝑖 = 1/2𝑞 𝑖 , the qi

order is not a simple harmonic of the pi order .

The final piece of the puzzle is to ascertain whether the original qi CDW order exhibits 

field sensitivity at elevated temperatures (> Tc). To do this we performed vector -field 

measurements at 4.2 K . As expected from th e temperature dependence shown in 

Fig. 2 , the FFT of the LDOS map at 4.2K and zero field (Fig. 4a) reveal only the energy -

independent qi peaks (Supplementary Fig. 12) , with a schematic of these CDW 

wavevectors shown in Fig. 4b . Upon applying magnetic fields along or near the 

crystallographic axes ( Bb* = 4.0 T, Ba = 0.4 T, and Bc* = 1.5 T), the qi peaks exhibit a 

reduction in intensity but remain discernible (Fig s. 4 c, e and g ). With further increase 

in field strength ( Bb* = 8.0 T, Ba = 0.8 T, and Bc* = 3.0 T ), the qi peaks are nearly or 

completely suppressed along all directions (Fig s. 4 d, f and h ). All datasets were 

acquired over the same spatial region using identical bias setpoints and energies, 

ensuring that the observed changes are exclusively field -induced . Compared to the 

results at lower temperature s where the qi modulation persists un der the same field 

magnitudes (Supplementary Fig s. 8 -10 ), we conclude that Hsup of the qi order 

decreases dramatically with increasing temperature. Specifically, at 4.2K, Hsup fall s

within the ranges 4.0 < 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑏 ∗

<8.0 T, 0.4 < 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝  

> 𝑎

<0.8 T and 1.5 < 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑐 ∗

<3.0 T along the b* -,a-, and c* -axis directions, respectively. 

By extracting the normalized intensity of each qi peak from the FFTs, we can track its 

evolution as a function of magnetic field strength for each crystallographic direction 

(Fig s. 4i–k). Scaling the applied field Bn (n=a, b* , c* ) by the corresponding upper critical 

field Hc2 reveals the anisotropic relation 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑏 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑐 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝  

> 𝑎

for all qi peaks , in 

agreement with the established hierarchy of 𝐻 𝑐 2

> 𝑏 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑐 2

> 𝑐 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑎

. Since superconductivity 

is fully suppressed at 4.2 K, this correlation between the anisotropy of Hsup and Hc2 

provides compelling evidence that the qi CDW order is intertwined with a PDW 

component. 

Finally, with comprehensive temperature - and field -dependent data in hand, we are 

now positioned to address the origins of the p1,2,3 (pi) peaks and their relation to the 

previously identified q1,2,3 (qi) CDW peaks, as well as the emergence of the h1 and h2

peaks. In our previous work, the qi CDW peaks were identified as composite orders 

which formed from the combination of wavevector qi PDWs and uniform 

superconductivity 23. With the new information in this study, we can provide a more 

refined explanation for the results. 

As we shall now show, the magnetic field sensitivity of the q1,2,3 CDW peaks above the 

bulk Tc and the formation of the p3 CDW at the bulk Tc, can both be explained by the 

existence of a PDW that forms with a higher critical temperature than the bulk Tc, and 

coexists with uniform superconductivity below Tc. Let us consider the following Landau 

free energy for the CDW and PDW orders: 

Here, 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 denotes the 𝒅 -vector of the triplet PDW order parameter at wavevector pi.

For spin -1/2 fermions, the PDW gap function is a 2x2 matrix, and is related to the 𝒅 -

vector as Δ𝑝 𝑖 (𝒓 ) = 𝑒 𝑖 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅𝒓 [𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝝈 ]𝑖 𝜎 𝑦 , where 𝝈 = (𝜎 𝑥 , 𝜎 𝑦 , 𝜎 𝑧 ) are the 2x2 Pauli matrices .

Similarly, 𝒅 0 is the 𝒅 -vector of the uniform triplet superconducting order parameter. 

TPDW is the transition temperatures of the PDW, which we take to be the same as the 

temperature where the qi CDW forms (approximately 5 K). Tc is the critical temperature 

for the bulk uniform superconductivity (approximately 2.1 K) . Note that we have not 

included all symmetry allowed terms in the free energy . In particular, in Eq. (1) we have 

not included possible bi -quadratic terms, which will encode competitions or 

cooperation between different phase orderings. However, these additional terms are 

not necessary for discussing the PDW induced CDWs. Also, in Eq. (1) we have not 

ℱ = ∑ 𝛼 𝑖 (𝑇 − 𝑇 𝑃𝐷𝑊 )|𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 |2 + 𝜆 𝑖 |𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 |4

> 𝑖

+𝛼 0(𝑇 − 𝑇 𝑐 )|𝒅 0|2 + 𝜆 0|𝒅 0|4

+𝑟 1 ∑|𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 |2 + 𝑟 2 ∑|𝜌 2𝑝 𝑖 |2 +

> 𝑖 𝑖

𝑟 4[𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 2 + 𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 1 ]

+𝑔 1 ∑ 𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 [𝒅 0 ⋅ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

+ 𝒅 0 

> ∗

⋅ 𝒅 −𝑝 𝑖 ]

> 𝑖

+ 𝑔 2 ∑ 𝜌 2𝑝 𝑖 

> 𝑖

𝒅 −𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 

> ∗

+𝛾 1 ∑ 𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 

> 𝑖

𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 𝜌 2𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

+ 𝛾 2[𝜌 2𝑝 3 𝜌 2𝑝 2 

> ∗

𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 2 

> ∗

+ 𝜌 2𝑝 3 𝜌 2𝑝 1 

> ∗

𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 1 

> ∗

] + 𝑐 . 𝑐 .

(1) included the effects of quenched random disorder (i.e. , impurities) which couples 

strongly to any non -uniform order and, ultimately, destroys long range PDW and CDW 

orders over length scales larger than the field of view of our STM experiments. 

Table 1 tabulates the observed CDW vectors and their connections to the PDW and 

uniform superconductivity (see Fig. 3e for their momentum -space distribution) . In the 

following, we discuss the microscopic origin of these CDWs at different temperature 

regimes . When T>TPDW , bo th PDW and superconducting orders are disordered 

( 〈𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 〉 = 〈𝒅 0〉 = 0 ), thus no CDW signal is observed. In the intermediate regime 

TPDW >T>Tc, the PDW s become ordered ( 〈𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 〉 ≠ 0) while the uniform superconductivity 

remains disordered ( 〈𝒅 0〉 = 0 ). The PDW s give rise to charge modulations at 

wavevector 2pi, 𝜌 𝑞 𝑖 ∝ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

, due to the tri -linear coupling between the different order 

parameters . These modulations correspond to the experimentally observed qi CDW 

peaks. The magnetic -field sensitivity of the qi peaks in this regime is governed by the 

same mechanism proposed in our previous work 23.

At temperatures below Tc, both the PDW and uniform superconductivity orders are 

established ( 〈𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 〉 ≠ 0, 〈𝒅 0〉 ≠ 0 ). The combination of PDW s and uniform 

superconductivity can give rise to wavevector s pi CDW s, 𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 ∝ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝒅 0 

> ∗

+ 𝒅 −𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

⋅ 𝒅 0 .

Among these CDWs , only p3 is observed at zero field, while p1 and p2 emerge under 

an applied magnetic field and are theoretically expected to arise from the same 

superconductivity -coupled mechanism. Within this theory, it implies that 𝒅 0 and 

𝒅 ±𝑝 1,2 

> ∗

are orthogonal to each other in zero magnetic field, while 𝒅 0 and 𝒅 ±𝑝 3 

> ∗

are not. 

The occurrence of the p1 and p2 CDWs in finite magnetic field, is explained by the fact 

that an external magnetic field can rotate 𝒅 -vectors and caus e them to align. It is worth 

noting that i f 𝒅 0 and 𝒅 −𝑝 1,2 

> ∗

are actually orthogonal in zero magnetic field , the re will be 

composite SDW order with wavevector 𝑝 1,2, 𝑆 𝑝 𝑖 ∝ 𝒅 0 × 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

. As we shall discuss in the 

next section, the PDW would have to be localized at the surface of the system in a 

consistent theory , and the SDWs would be localized at the surface as well. Detecting 

the SDWs would req uire a surface -sensitive probe, such as spin -polarized STM. 

From this analysis , we find that all the qi and pi CDWs orders can be consistently 

understood as arising from PDW s and uniform superconductivity . This scenario does ,

however, rest on the strong assumption that the PDW s form above the bulk Tc. Given 

that there is no bulk evidence of a PDW above Tc, such a state would have to be 

localized to the surface of the sample. In principle , a surface PDW can occur above 

the bulk Tc, as the energetics of the surface may be very different than those of the 

bulk. A microscopic theory would be needed to determine if a surface PDW can , in fact, 

arise in this way .

Based on the refined PDW framework, we are now ab le to elucidate the origin of the 

h1 and h2 modulations. In fact, the h1 and h2 modulations can be interpreted as 

harmonic -derived, higher -order composite CDWs. Since ℎ1 = 2𝑝 3 − 2𝑝 2 = 𝑞 3 − 𝑞 2 ,

the equation of motion for 𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 2 show that the h1 CDW can arise as a composite of the q3 and −q2 CDWs , or equivalently , as a fourth -order composite of PDW 

components. Similarly, the h2 CDW corresponds to 𝜌 2𝑝 3−2𝑝 1 and can arise as a 

composite of the q3 and − q1 CDWs . This explanation also accounts for the similarities 

between the magnetic field responses of the h1,2 CDWs (Supplementary Figs. 8 and 9) 

and those of the qi CDWs 23.

Our results reveal a previously unrecognized hierarchy of intertwined electronic orders 

in UTe 2. The vector -field and temperature -dependent measurements of the high -

temperature q1,2,3 and low -temperature h1,2 , p 1,2,3 CDW modulations point towards a 

PDW -based explanation , where wavevector pi PDWs form above Tc, leading to the 

q1,2,3 and h1,2 charge modulations, while the p1,2,3 peaks emerge through coupling to 

uniform superconductivity below Tc. This is captured by a Landau free energy which 

couples the PDW, uniform superconductivity and CDW order parameters to one 

another . Our findings offer crucial insights into the nature of PDW states and their role 

in generating intertwined orders in strongly correlated systems. References: 

1. Fradkin, E., Kivelson, S. A. & Tranquada, J. M. Theory of intertwined orders in high 

temperature superconductors. Rev. Mod. Phys. 87 , 457 (2015). 

2. Fradkin, E. Intertwined orders and the physics of high temperature 

superconductors. Particles 8, 70 (2025). 

3. Ag terberg, D. F. et al. The physics of pair -density waves: cuprate superconductors 

and beyond. Annu. Rev. Condens. Matter Phys. 11 , 231 (2020). 

4. Dai, Z., Zhang, Y. -H., Senthil, T. & Lee, P. A. Pair -density waves, charge -density 

waves, and vortices in high -Tc cuprates. Phys. Rev. B 97 , 174511 (2018). 

5. Hamidian, M. H. et al. Detection of a Cooper -pair density wave in Bi 2Sr 2CaCu 2O8+x .

Nature 532 , 343 (2016). 

6. Edkins, S. D. et al. Magnetic field –induced pair density wave state in the cuprate 

vortex halo . Science 364 , 976 (2019). 

7. Lee, J. -S. et al. Pair -density wave signature observed by x -ray scattering in La -

based high -Tc cuprates. arXiv:2310.19907 (2023). 

8. Liu, X., Chong, Y. X., Sharma, R. & Davis, J. C. S. Discovery of a Cooper  ‑pair 

density wave state in a transition ‑metal dichalcogenide. Science 372 , 1447 (2021). 

9. Cao, L. et al. Directly visualizing nematic superconductivity driven by the pair 

density wave in NbSe 2. Nat. Commun . 15 , 7234, (2024). 

10. Cheng, F. -J. et al. Imaging sublattice Cooper -pair density waves in monolayer 1T′ -

MoTe 2. Phys. Rev. Lett. 135 , 166201 (2025). 

11. Chen, H. et al. Roton pair density wave and unconventional strong -coupling 

superconductivity in a topological kagome metal. Nature 599 , 222 (2021). 

12. Han, X. et al. Atomic manipulation of the emergent quasi -2D superconductivity and 

pair density wave in a kagome metal. Nat. Nanotechnol. 20 , 1017 (2025). 

13. Zhao, H. et al. Smectic pair -density -wave order in EuRbFe 4As 4. Nature 618 , 940 

(2023). 

14. Liu, Y. et al. Pair density wave state in a monolayer high -Tc iron -based 

superconductor. Nature 618 , 934 (2023). 

15. Ran, S. et al. Nearly ferromagnetic spin -triplet superconductivity. Science 365 , 684 

(2019). 

16. Ran, S. et al. Extreme magnetic field -boosted superconductivity. Nat. Phys. 15 ,

1250 (2019). 

17. Jiao, L. et al. Chiral superconductivity in heavy -fermion metal UTe 2. Nature 579 ,

523 (2020). 

18. Aoki, D. Molten salt flux liquid transport method for ultra clean sin gle crystals UTe 2.

J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 93, 043703 (2024). 

19. Eaton, A. G. et al. Quasi ‑2D Fermi surface in the anomalous superconductor UTe 2.

Nat. Commun. 15 , 223 (2024). 

20. Hayes, I. M. et al. Robust nodal behavior in the thermal conductivity of 

superconducting UTe 2. Phys. Rev. X 15 , 021029 (2025). 

21. Wu, Z. et al. Enhanced triplet superconductivity in next -generation ultraclean UTe 2.

Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 121 , e2403067121 (2024). 22. Gu, Q. et al. Detection of a pair density wave state in UTe 2. Nature 618 , 921 (2023). 

23. Aishwarya, A. et al. Magnetic -field -sensitive charge density waves in the 

superconductor UTe 2. Nature 618 , 928 (2023) .

24. Aishwarya, A. et al. Melting of the charge density wave by generation of pairs of 

topological defects in UTe 2. Na t. Phys. 20 , 964 (2024). 

25. Szabó, A. L. & Ramires, A. Intertwining bulk and surface: the case of UTe 2.

arXiv:2503.24390 (2025). 

26. García Talavera, P. et al. Surface charge density wave in UTe 2. arXiv:2504.12505 

(2025). 

27. Wang, S. et al. Odd -parity quasiparticle interference in the superconductive 

surface state of UTe 2. Nat. Phys. 21 , 1555 (2025) .

28. Gu, Q. et al. Pair wave function symmetry in UTe 2 from zero -energy surface state 

visualization. Science 388 , 938 (2025) .

29. Kengle, C. S. et al. Absence of a bulk signature of a charge density wave in hard 

x-ray measurements of UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 110 , 145101 (2024). 

30. Kengle, C. S. et al. Absence of bulk charge density wave order in the normal state 

of UTe 2. Nat. Commun. 15 , 9713 (2024) .

31. Theussl, F. et al. Absence of a bulk thermodynamic phase transition to a density 

wave phase in UTe 2. Phys. Rev. B 110 , 144507 (2024). 

32. Theuss, F. et al. Single -component superconductivity in UTe 2 at ambient pressure. 

Nat. Phys. 20 , 1124 (2024). Meth ods 

Single crystals of UTe 2 grown by a molten flux method were used. The growth and 

characterization are mentioned in detail elsewhere 19. The STM measurement were 

performed in a U niso ku STM operating under ultra -high vacuum and a vector magnetic 

field ( Hx:4T, Hy:1T, Hz:9T). The UTe 2 single crystals were cleave in situ at about 90K 

and then transferred immediately into STM head. All the measu rements were carried 

out at 300 mK (unless otherwise specified ) using tungsten tips treated with heating in 

situ. dI/dV signals were acquired by a standard lock -in amplifier with modulation of 500 

μV at 991 Hz, unless otherwise noted. 

Acknowledgments : STM studies at the University of Illinois, Urbana -Champaign were 

supported by the US Department of Energy, Office of Science, Office of Basic Energy 

Sciences, Materials Sciences and Engineering Divi sion under award number DE -

SC0022101. V.M. acknowledges partial support from Gordon and Betty More 

Foundation’s EPiQS Initiative through grant GBMF4860 and the Quantum Materials 

Program at CIFAR where she is a Fellow. Theoretical work was supported in part by 

National Science Foundation grant DMR 2225920 (E.F.) . A.G.E. acknowledges 

support from the Henry Royce Institute for Advanced Materials through the Equipment 

Access Scheme enabling access to the Advanced Materials Characterization Suite at 

Cambridge, g rant numbers EP/P024947/1, EP/M000524/1 & EP/R00661X/1; and from 

Sidney Sussex College (University of Cambridge). M.V and A.C. acknowledge support 

by the Czech Science Foundation GAČR under the Junior Star Grant No. 26 -21795M 

(STiUS). Crystals were grown and characterized in MGML (mgml.eu), which is 

supported within the program of Czech Research Infrastructures (project No. 

LM2023065). Research at the University of Maryland was supported by the Gordon 

and Betty Moore Foundation’s EPiQS Initiative Gra nt No. GBMF9071, the NIST Center 

for Neutron Research, and the Maryland Quantum Materials Center. 

Author contributions : Z.Z. and V.M. conceived the experiments. Z.W., S.R.S., J.P. ,

A.G.E. , A.C. and M.V. provided the characterized single crystals. Z.Z., Y.H. and K.L.

obtained the STM data. Z.Z., Y.H. and V.M. carried out the analysis and J.M. -M. and 

E.F. provided the theoretical input on the interpretation of the data. Z.Z., V.M., J.M. -M. 

and E.F. wrote the paper with input from all authors. 

Competing interests : The authors declare no competing interest. Figures: 

Fig .1 | Crystal str ucture and two dis tinct sets of charge density wave orders of UTe 2.

a, Structural framework of UTe 2. The orthorhombic unit cell and the (01 -1) cleavage plane 

are delineated by a rectangular box and a blue plane, respectively. Each U (red) atom is 

coordinated by two inequivalent Te sites, denoted Te1 (light blue) and Te2 (dark blue). b,

Side -view schemat ic of (01 -1) plane. Relations between externally applied magnetic fields 

(Ba, Bb* , and Bc* ) and the crystallographic axes are illustrated. The Ba direction is parallel 

to the a-axis, while the Bb* and Bc* fields are counterclockwise tilted by approximately 12° 

relative to the crystallographic b and c axes, respectively. c, Atomic -resolution image 

acquired on defect free region at 300 mK ( V=20 mV, I=100 pA). Scale bar, 3nm. The inset 

shows the configuration of Te1 (light blue) and Te2 (dark blue) atoms with lattice schematic 

overlaid on top. d, Fourier transform of the topography shown in c. The Bragg peaks arising 

from Te1 atoms are marked by white circles ( ±qTe , ±qTe ’, ±qTe chains ; only one side is labeled 

for clarity ). Squares colored yellow (q1), purple (q2) and cyan (q3) denote the experimentally 

confirmed set of CDW peaks. Additionally, a newly observed set of CDW orders under zero 

field is indicated by blue (h1) and red (h2) triangle s, as well as a green circle (p3). e-g, FFTs 

of LDOS maps shown in Supplementary Fig. 2 at 300 mK for the indicated energies . The 

new set of CDW modulations (h1, h2 and p3), marked by blue/red triangles and a green 

circle , is clearly visible at all energies . The Bragg peaks are marked by white circles (V=20 

mV, I=150 pA) . h, Line cut extracted along line 3 indicated in e. The magnitude of p3 is 

approximately half that of q3. i-k, The intensity maps plotted by line cuts extracted from 

FFTs at various energies along the dashed lines in e. The magnitude of the h1, h2 and p3

wavevectors remains constant with energy, consistent with their identification as CDW 

signals. All three CDW waveve ctors exhibit similar magnitudes, approximately 0.28 qTe.Fig .2 | Temperature -dependent suppression of the h1,2 , p3 and qi CDW orders. a-g. 

FFTs acquired on the same area at the indic ated temperatures, maintaining identical set 

points ( V=20 mV, I=100 pA). The intensities of FFT images are normalized by qTe and qTe ’.

The amplitude of the p3 peak (green circle) rapidly diminishes upon crossing the 

superconducting transition temperature ( Tc=2.1 K) of UTe 2. Peaks h1 (blue triangle ) and h2

(red triangle ) vanish at approximately 3.5 K. The intensity of the previously identified qi

CDW continuously weakens with increasing temperature, becoming significantly 

attenuated by 4.8 K. The Bragg peaks are marked by white circles in a. h, Temperature 

depend ence of the intensities of h1,2 , p3 peaks . i, Same as h, but for the qi peak intensit ies .

Extracted peak intensities are normalized relative to qTe and qTe ’. Scatter points are color -

coded according to their corresponding CDW labels , and shaded areas of matching colors 

serve as visual guides to indicate over all intensity trends. The background intensity (BG), 

extracted from FFT regions free of CDW peaks (gray square in g), is shown as gray solid 

circles with hatched shading and remai ns nearly constant with temperature. Fig .3 | Magnetic field and temperature evolution of the field -induced CDW peak p2.

a-d, FFTs obtained on the same area at the indic ated magnetic fields under consistent 

experimental conditions ( T=300 mK , V=20 mV, I=100 pA). The orientations of applied fields 

(Bb* , Ba, and Bc* ) relative to crystal axes are illustrated in Fig. 1b. An additional CDW peak, 

p2 (light green circle ), emerges under various field configurations and exhibits a wavevector 

magnitude equal to half of q2 (purple square). The Bragg peaks are marked by white circles 

in a. e, Schematic summary of CDW peaks observed at 0 T (h1, h2, p3, q1, q2, q3) and under 

finite magnetic fields (p1 and p2) at 300mK . White circles indicate Bragg points. f, Three -

dimensional plot of the p2 CDW peak intensity as functions of temperature and magnetic 

field along the Bb* direction . Peak p2 appears at 5 T and persists at least to 8 T at 300 mK ,

remains detectable at narrower field range at 1.6 K, and is absent at 2.5 K. g, Same as f,

but with magnetic field applied along the Ba direction . The peak arise s around 0.5 T at 300 

mK, intensifies with incre asing field, persists at 1.6 K under corresponding magnetic fields, 

and vanishes at 2.5 K . h, Dependence of p2 CDW peak intensity on magnetic field applied 

along the Bc* direction at 300mK . The peak emerges at approximately 0.5 T and is 

enhanced by further increasing t he field . S olid circles and open circles in f-h indicate the 

presence and absence of the p2 peak at the corresponding magnetic fields and 

temperatures, respectively . All intensities presented in f-h are normalized with respect to 

qTe and qTe ’. Complete FFT datasets are provided in Supplementary Fig s. 8-10 .Fig .4 | Magnetic field dependence of the qi CDW orders above Tc (4.2K). a, FFT of the 

LDOS map acquired at -20mV and 4.2K under zero magnetic field , where only the qi CDW 

is visible . The Bragg peaks are marked by white circles (V = 20 mV, I = 150 pA). b,

Schematic of the qi CDW peaks observed at 4.2 K. White circles indicate Bragg peaks . c-

h, FFTs of LDOS maps acquired a t –20 mV and 4.2 K under the indicated magnetic fields. 

All measurements were performed in the same area as in a, using identical set -point 

conditions ( V = 20 mV, I = 150 pA). The qi CDW peaks are completely suppressed in d

(Bb* =8.0 T) and h (Bc* =3.0 T). Peaks q1 and q2 are entirely suppressed, whereas q3 remains 

only barely visible in f (Ba=0.8 T). The intensities of FFT images are normalized by qTe and 

qTe ’. i-k, Intensity variations of the three CDW peaks q1 (yellow square), q3 (cyan square), 

and q2 (purple square) as functions of vector magnetic fields Bn (n=a, b* , c* ), respectively. 

The field values along each direction are scaled by the corresponding 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑛

(n=a, b* , c* ) of 

UTe 2. All extracted intensities of the qi peaks are normalized with respect to qTe and qTe ’.

The magnetic fields required to fully suppress the qᵢ CDW peaks differ along the three field 

directions following the order 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑏 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝 

> 𝑐 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑠𝑢𝑝  

> 𝑎

, which aligns with the corresponding 

trend of 𝐻 𝑐 2, namely, 𝐻 𝑐 2

> 𝑏 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑐 2

> 𝑐 ∗

> 𝐻 𝑐 2 

> 𝑎

.Table 1. Summary of the observed charge density wave (CDW ) vectors and their 

relationship to the pair density wave (PDW) and uniform superconductivity. 

CDW vectors  Category  Physical origin  Representative 

expressions 

pi (i=1,2,3)  Fundamental 

(low T)

Composite of pi PDW s and 

uniform superconductivity  𝜌 𝑝 𝑖 ∝ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝒅 0 

> ∗

+ 𝒅 −𝑝 𝑖  

> ∗

⋅ 𝒅 0

qi (i=1,2,3)  Fundamental 

(high T) Composite of pi PDW s 𝜌 𝑞 𝑖 ∝ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 ⋅ 𝒅 𝑝 𝑖 

> ∗

h1,2 

Harmonic -

derived  Harmonic of qi CDWs  ℎ1 = 𝑞 3 − 𝑞 2

ℎ2 = 𝑞 3 − 𝑞 1Supplementary Information for 

Discovery of intertwined pair density and charge density wave orders in UTe 2

Zhen Zhu 1, Yudi Huang 1, Julian May -Mann 2, Kaiming Liu 1, Zheyu Wu 3, Shanta R. Saha 4,

Johnpierre Paglione 4,5 , Alexander G. Eaton 3, Andrej Cabala 6, Michal Vališka 6, Eduardo 

Fradkin 1,7 , and Vidya Madhavan 1,5 

8. Department of Physics and Materials Research Laboratory, Grainger College of 

Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana -Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA. 

9. Department of Physics, Stanfor d University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 

10. Cavendish Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0HE, United 

Kingdom. 

11. Maryland Quantum Materials Center, Department of Physics, University of 

Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. 

12. Canadian Institute for Advanc ed Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 

13. Charles University, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Department of 

Condensed Matter Physics, Ke Karlovu 5, Prague 2, 121 16, Czech Republic. 

14. Institute for Condensed Matter Theory, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL , USA. 

This document includes Supplementary Figures 1 -12Supplementary Figure 1| Temperature dependence of resistivity in UTe 2 single 

crystals grown by the molten -salt flux method . Electrical resistivity ( ρ) of UTe 2 as a 

function of temperature ( T) between 1.8 K and 4 K. A sharp drop to zero resistance is 

observed at ~2. 1 K, marking the superconducting transition .Supplementary Figure 2| LDOS at 300 mK. LDOS maps acquired on a defect -free area 

at the indicated energies. Scale bar, 5 nm. ( V = 20 mV, I = 150 pA). Supplementary Figure 3| FFT of LDOS at 300 mK. FFT s of LDOS maps acquired on a 

defect -free area at the indicated energies. Supplementary Figure 4| Real -space pattern s of the Te lattice , qi (i=1, 2, 3) , h1,2 and 

p3 CDW orders at 300 mK under zero magnetic field . a-c, FFT s of STM image in Fig.1c, 

with Te Bragg peaks , qi, h1,2 and p3 peaks marked respectively. d-f, Inverse FFT s of the 

corresponding peaks shown in a-c, revealing the real -space modulations associated with 

each component . Notably, the h1,2 and p3 CDW order s form a hexagonal lattice –like 

periodic modulation .Supplementary Figure 5| Impact of surface defects on the visibility of the h1,2 , p 3

CDW order s at 300 mK . a, b, STM topography acquired on a region with no visible top -

layer defects, and the corresponding F FT, where qi, h1,2 , p 3 CDW orders are clearly 

resolved . c, d, Topography measured in a nearby region to that shown in a, containing a 

few surface defects, and the corresponding FFT. The p3 peak becomes embedded within 

defect -induced states. e, f, Topography measured over a larger region that includes the 

area shown in a and c, with more surface defects present, and the corresponding FFT . The 

h1,2 , p3 order s are completely smeared by defect interference and becomes 

indistinguishable . g, h, Topography and FFT after masking the surface defects in e, which 

recover the h1,2 , p 3 CDW signal s. White circles mark a subsurface defect that serves as a 

spatial reference, confirming that the regions shown in a, c, and e were acquired within the 

same local area. The qi order remains clearly visible regardless of the presence of surface 

defects, sugges ting that interference from top -layer disorder most likely hindered the 

detection of the h1,2 , p 3 order s (T=300 mK, V=10 mV, I=100 pA ).Supplementary Figure 6| Schematic of magnetic field orientation relative to 

crystallographic axes . a-c. In -plane vortices imaged on the surface of 2H -NbSe 2 via dI /dV 

maps acquired at 0 mV (T=300 mK, V=3 mV, I=200 pA, Vmod =50 μV). A magnetic field of 

0.2 T is applied along the Bx, By, and Bxy directions, as indicated by the red arrows . The in -

plane field induced vortices exhibit stripe -like structures parallel to the field direction ,

confirming that the magnetic field axes are aligned with the scanner coordinates . Scale bar, 

60 nm. d. Schemati c of the UTe 2 (01 -1) cleave plane . e. High -resolution topographic image 

of UTe 2 (V=50 mV, I=100 pA) . Based on the crystallographic structure that Te1 atoms lie at 

a higher absolute height than Te2, the observed dominant chain is attributed to Te1. The 

over laid atomic configuration of Te1 (light blue) and Te2 (dark blue) under this assumption 

corresponds to a (01 -1) surface termination. Scale bar, 0.5nm. f. Schematic of scan plane 

and (01 -1) plane. The (01 -1) plane is tilted by 12° counterclockwise with respect to the 

scan plane. The [01 -1] surface normal forms a constant angle of 24° with the b axis. g.

Orientation of the vector magnetic field directions relative to the crystallographic axes for 

the (0 1-1) cleave plane. The field By (Ba) is aligned with a-axis, while Bx (Bc* ) and Bz (Bb* )

are tilted counterclockwise by approximately 12° from the c- and b-axe s. h. Schematic of 

the UTe 2 (01 1) cleave plane . i. Same as e. Based on the calculation that Te2 p orbitals 

dominate the density of states at the Fermi level, the observed dominant chain is attributed 

to Te2. The overlaid atomic configuration of Te1 (light blue) and Te2 (dark blue) in this 

scenario is consistent with a (011) surface terminat ion. j. Schematic of scan plane and (011) 

plane. k. Orientation of the vector magnetic field directions relative to the crystallographic 

axes for the (0 11 ) cleave plane. The field By (Ba) is aligned with a-axis, while Bx (Bc* ) and 

Bz (Bb* ) are tilted counterclockwise by approximately 36 ° from the c- and b-axe s.Supplementary Figure 7| Energy dependence of field -induced p2 CDW at 300 mK 

under field applied along the Bc* direction . a-d, FFT s of LDOS maps at the indicated 

energies under Bc* = 2.0T . The field -induced p2 CDW peak, marked by light green circle, is 

clearly visible at all energies (V=20 mV, I=100 pA) . e, Line cut extracted along the purple 

line indicated in b. The magnitude of p2 is approximately half that of q2. f, The intensity map 

plotted by line cut extracted from FFT s at various energies along the dashed lines in b. The 

magnitude of the p2 wavevectors remains constant with energy, consistent with their 

id entification as CDW signals. The center point is set to zero .Supplementary Figure 8| Temperature and Bb* -field dependence of the field -induced 

p2 CDW . a, FFT s of topographies acquired at 300 mK under magnetic fields applied along 

Bb* direction . The field -induced p2 peak emerges at 5.0 T and persists at least up to 8 T. b,

FFT obtained under 8 T at 300mK with the scan frame rotated by 90°, confirming the 

presence of the qi CDW order at this field and temperature. The intense central line 

observed in a at 8 T is identified as noise. c. FFTs measured at 1.6 K under the same field 

orientation. The p2 peak rem ains discernible at 5 T and 6 T, but vanishes at 8 T, 

accompanied by a complete suppression of the h1 and h2 CDW peaks. d, FFTs acquired 

at 2.5 K, above Tc = 2.1 K. No p2 peak is observed at any field, and the h1 and h2 order s are 

fully suppressed by 6 T. All measurements were performed in the same area with identical 

set point conditions (V=20 mV, I=100 pA) , and FFT intensities are normalized by qTe and 

qTe ’.Supplementary Figure 9| Temperature and Ba-field dependence of the field -induced 

p2 CDW . a, FFT s of topographies acquired at 300 mK under magnetic fields applied along 

Ba direction . The field -induced p2 peak emerges at 0.5 T and persists at least up to 0.8 T. 

b. FFTs measured at 1.6 K under the same field orientation. The p2 peak remains 

dis cernible at 0.5 T and 0.8 T, while the h2 peak is suppressed at 0.8 T . c, FFTs acquired at 

2.5 K, above Tc = 2.1 K. No p2 peak is observed at any field, and the h2 peak is suppressed 

by 0.5 T. All measurements were performed in the same area with identical set point 

conditions (V=20 mV, I=100 pA) , and FFT intensities are normalized by qTe and qTe ’.Supplementary Figure 10 | Bc* -field dependence of the field -induced p2 CDW . FFT s of 

topographies acquired at 300 mK under magnetic fields applied along Bc* direction . The 

field -induced p2 peak emerges at 0.5 T and persists at least up to 2.0 T. The p2 signal 

becomes weaker at 3.0 T , accompanied by the appearance of an additional peak (red 

triangle ) whose wavevector magnitude is half that of p3. All measurements were performed 

in the same area with identical set point conditions (V=20 mV, I=100 pA) , and FFT 

intensities are normalized by qTe and qTe ’.Supplementary Figure 11 | Emergence of p1 CDW in a distinct region under Bb* field. 

a-d, FFTs of topographies acquired in the same area at 300 mK under magnetic fields 

applied along the Bb* direction. This field of view differs from that shown in Supplementary 

Figures 8 –10. A p1 CDW peak , the mirror counterpart of p2, appear s at 5 T and 8 T . All 

measurements were performed with identical set -point conditions ( V = 10 mV, I = 100 pA ), 

and FFT intensities are normalized by qTe and qTe ’. e, FFT of the LDOS map acquired at –

20 mV and 300 m K under Bb* = 5 T. f, Line cut extracted along the yellow line indicated in 

e. The magnitude of p1 is approximately half that of q1. g, The intensity map plotted by line 

cut extracted from FFT s at various energies along the dashed lines in e. The magnitude of 

the p1 wavevectors remains constant with energy, consistent with their identification as 

CDW s ignals. Supplementary Figure 12 | Energy -independent h1,2 , p3 peaks at 300 mK and q1,2,3 

peaks at 4.2 K . a-c, FFTs of LDOS maps acquired at 300 mK for the indicated energies ,

same as Figs.1 e -g (V=20 mV, I=150 pA). d-f, The intensity maps plotted by line cuts 

extracted from FFTs at various energies along the dashed lines in a, same as Figs.1 i -k. h-

j, FFTs of LDOS maps acquired at 4.2 K for the indicated energies (V=20 mV, I=150 pA). 

k-m, The intensity maps plotted by line cuts extracted from FFTs at various energies along 

the dashed lines in g. The magnitude of the h1,2 , p3 and q1,2,3 wavevectors remains constant 

with energy, consistent with their identification as CDW signals.