Title: Spin effects in superfluidity, neutron matter and neutron stars

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.02782v1

Published Time: Mon, 06 Apr 2026 00:30:32 GMT

Number of Pages: 24

Markdown Content:
# Spin effects in superfluidity, neutron matter and neutron stars 

Armen Sedrakian 1, 2, ∗ and Peter B. Rau 3, †

> 1

Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies, 60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany 

> 2

Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Wroclaw, 50-204 Wroclaw, Poland 

> 3

Columbia Astrophysics Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, USA 

(Dated: 3 April, 2026) We review selected aspects of the interior physics of compact stars, focusing on the microscopic and macroscopic manifestations of spin, magnetic fields, and nucleonic superfluidity and supercon-ductivity. Spin statistics of fermions allows quantum degeneracy pressure to determine the stability and global properties of neutron stars, whose structure depends sensitively on the strong interactions among baryons in dense matter. Using a generic meta-modeling framework based on an expansion of the nuclear energy density around the isospin-symmetric and saturation-density limits, we high-light how various lesser-known terms in this expansion affect compact-star observables and review multimessenger constraints on mass, radius, and moment of inertia. The influence of magnetic fields on dense matter is examined, showing that substantial effects in their structure require extremely strong fields, whereas lower fields are sufficient to affect their superfluid phases. At the mesoscopic scale, the coexistence of superfluid and superconducting components features vortex and flux-tube lattices, with pinning and mutual friction processes playing central roles in neutron-star rotational dynamics. We discuss unresolved issues concerning vortex structure, flux-tube configurations, and the origin of pulsar glitches and post-glitch relaxation. We also briefly address the possible emergence of deconfined quark phases in compact-star cores, including their color-superconducting properties, as well as the associated vortex structures and magnetic-field responses in such phases. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

The year 2025 marks the centennial of the proposal of electron spin – an intrinsic two-valued form of an-gular momentum – by George Uhlenbeck and Samuel Goudsmit [1]. Their work provided the first clear for-mulation of spin as an intrinsic property of the elec-tron, building on earlier experimental and theoretical in-dications, including the anomalous Zeeman effect, the Stern–Gerlach experiment, and early discussions of elec-tron magnetic moments by A. Compton. Originally in-troduced to explain the puzzling doubling and splitting of atomic spectral lines, the concept of spin soon revolu-tionized physics across all scales. From atomic structure and chemistry to condensed matter, quantum field the-ory, and modern quantum technologies, spin has become a cornerstone of our understanding of nature. Although initially met with skepticism, the concept soon found solid theoretical grounding. Pauli formalized its quan-tum description through his matrices and the exclusion principle [2, 3], while Dirac’s relativistic wave equation [4] revealed spin as an inherent and inevitable consequence of relativistic quantum mechanics. In astrophysics, the impact of spin is especially pro-found. Unlike ordinary stars, neutron stars are supported not by thermal pressure but by the degeneracy pressure arising from the Pauli exclusion principle and the spin-statistics connection for fermions. In this sense, neutron stars represent nature’s most striking astrophysical man-

> ∗Electronic address: sedrakian@fias.uni-frankfurt.de
> †Electronic address: pbr2123@columbia.edu

ifestation of fermionic spin: city-sized stellar remnants held up against gravity primarily by the quantum prop-erty of spin in their constituent neutrons (and, to a lesser degree, other baryons). What began as an ad hoc solu-tion to a spectroscopic puzzle thus became a foundational pillar of modern physics, linking the microscopic struc-ture of elementary particles to the macroscopic stability of stars. Neutron stars are typically understood as objects com-posed primarily of nucleonic degrees of freedom, with an admixture of electrons (and muons at sufficiently high densities). They belong to the broader class of compact stars, all of which derive their stability from degeneracy pressure: (a) White dwarfs, characterized by lower aver-age densities and significantly larger radii, are supported by the pressure of a cold, relativistic electron gas; (b) Hybrid and hyperonic stars, which can be regarded as subclasses of neutron stars, may be stabilized (in part) by the degeneracy pressure of cold, dense quark mat-ter or hyperonic components, respectively, located deep within the stellar core and surrounded by an envelope of ordinary nuclear matter; (c) Strange stars are hypothe-sized to consist of nearly equal numbers of up, down, and strange quarks, with their stability arising from quark de-generacy pressure. These objects remain elusive, with no observational evidence to date supporting their existence. Note that white dwarfs are separated from neutron stars by an instability region in parameter space (e.g., central density versus stellar mass), whereas hybrid stars may or may not form distinct branch(es) relative to neutron (or hyperonic) stars. Strange stars are generally discon-nected from other compact star families. Thus, the centennial of electron spin is also a moment to reflect on and review its cosmic implications: the sta-

> arXiv:2604.02782v1 [astro-ph.HE] 3 Apr 2026

2bility of compact stars, the fate of massive stellar evo-lution, and the extraordinary role played by a quantum mechanical principle, first invoked to explain the fine de-tails of atomic spectra, in producing the strongest grav-ity, most compact exotic stellar objects in the universe. This review provides a concise and up-to-date account of the interior physics of compact stars, with particular emphasis on recent theoretical and observational devel-opments, as well as on the fundamental role of spin in determining their structural and dynamical properties. Neutron star interiors may contain a significant—and in some cases even dominant—fraction of heavy baryons, such as hyperons and ∆-resonances. These can be viewed as heavier counterparts of nucleons: hyperons carry strangeness, while ∆-resonances correspond to higher-spin excitations. In what follows, we use the term “neu-tron stars” to denote objects composed primarily of nu-cleonic degrees of freedom; however, we comment where appropriate on the modifications due to other degrees of freedom that become relevant. Section II outlines the EoS of neutron-star matter and summarizes current astrophysical constraints on neutron-star mass, radius, and moment of inertia. Several repre-sentative numerical examples are presented to illustrate generic trends. Section III examines the microphysics of strongly magnetized neutron stars, highlighting the in-fluence of spin in such environments, especially the non-trivial consequences of spin degeneracy lifting and Lan-dau quantization. Section IV reviews superfluidity and superconductivity in neutron-star interiors, emphasizing pairing patterns that depend sensitively on the spin con-figuration of the neutron and proton Cooper pairs in dif-ferent density regimes. The spin-1 triplet pairing and effects of the magnetic field on the pairing patterns are discussed, together with the emergence of quantum vor-ticity as a response to rotation and the magnetic field. Fi-nally, Section V considers the macroscopic manifestations of superfluidity in neutron stars and their astrophysical implications, focusing on rotational irregularities such as glitches and long-term precession phenomena. This re-view concludes with a discussion of pairing, spin, and superfluidity in quark matter in Sec. VI, where we em-phasize the analogies with, and differences from, nucle-onic systems rather than presenting a fully independent treatment. Nevertheless, we provide key references to guide the interested reader toward more detailed studies of this topic. The selection of topics and examples in this review is, naturally, guided by the authors’ own research interests and emphasizes the role of spin, which constitutes the central theme of this work. Furthermore, the bibliogra-phy is intended to be illustrative rather than exhaustive, highlighting representative contributions rather than of-fering a comprehensive survey of the field.   

> II. SPIN AND THE EOS OF NEUTRON STARS A. Spin, quantum statistics and degeneracy pressure

At the most fundamental level, the spin–statistics con-nection ensures the existence of compact stars through degeneracy pressure. Neutrons, as spin-1 /2 fermions, obey Fermi–Dirac statistics, and their degeneracy pres-sure counteracts gravitational collapse. Additional bary-onic species, such as protons, hyperons, and baryon res-onances, also contribute—though typically at a smaller level, depending on the star’s composition. While hy-perons, like nucleons, carry spin 1 /2, ∆-resonances have spin 3 /2; both are fermions and contribute to the total degeneracy pressure, with their impact entering through different degeneracy factors in the phase-space integrals as well as from the specifics of their distinct dynamical equations (Dirac equation or Rarita–Schwinger equation) and strong and electroweak interactions with their envi-ronment [5, 6]. Although the model of a non-interacting degenerate Fermi gas is unrealistic, it is worthwhile to briefly look at it, firstly, because it was the first model to describe degenerate compact stars, and secondly, it exhibits the importance of the spin and Fermi statistics in creating the degeneracy pressure [7, 8]. At zero temperature, the picture is such that all the states below the Fermi en-ergy EF,n , or the associated momentum pF,n are occu-pied, whereas all the states above are free. The rela-tivistic spectrum of neutrons EF,n =

q

m2

> n

c4 + p2

> F,n

c2,where mn is the (bare or effective) neutron mass, pF,n 

is the Fermi momentum, is useful to express in terms of the dimensionless relativity parameter for neutrons xn

via EF,n = mnc2 cosh ( xn/4) , x n = 4 sinh −1 (pF,n /m nc) .

Thus, xn encodes the degree of relativism of the neu-trons: small xn corresponds to the non-relativistic limit, while large xn corresponds to the ultrarelativistic regime. Computing the energy density by integrating the distri-bution function of neutrons over momentum space up to the Fermi momentum, and similarly, the pressure using the standard thermodynamics formulas, one finds at zero temperature [9] 

En = Kn (sinh xn − xn) , (1) 

Pn = Kn

 13 sinh xn − 83 sinh 

 xn

2



+ xn



, (2) where Kn = m4

> n

c5/32 π2ℏ3, sets the overall density and pressure scale. It has dimensions of energy density and arises naturally from the phase-space volume of fermions (counting states per unit volume in momentum space with a factor 2 for spin degeneracy assuming spin 1/2 fermions). Together, Eqs. (1) and (2) describe the EoS of cold, degenerate neutrons. The limiting cases of non-relativistic xn ≪ 1 and ultra-relativistic xn ≫ 1 gas are easily recovered by expanding these equations respec-tively in xn and x−1 

> n

, showing the polytropic forms of the 3EoS in these two limits 

Pn ∝

(

E5/3 

> n

, xn ≪ 1,

E4/3 

> n

, xn ≫ 1. (3) Although real neutron-star matter involves strong nu-clear interactions, the relativistic Fermi gas model high-lights the role of the Pauli principle and spin–statistics in supporting neutron stars against gravity [8]. Corrections due to interactions are, however, significant. The predic-tions for the global parameters of the neutron stars by the degenerate ideal gas EoS are unrealistic, in particu-lar, the maximum mass of a sequence of compact stars turns out to be too low and in contradiction to the ob-servations.  

> B. Astrophysical limits

Pulsar timing provides precise neutron star mass mea-surements through Keplerian and relativistic parame-ters of binary systems, including neutron star–neutron star and neutron star–white dwarf pairs. Although neu-tron star–black hole binaries have been detected in grav-itational waves, they have not yet yielded strong con-straints on the neutron star structure. The Shapiro de-lay method—based on the extra time radio pulses take to traverse the gravitational field of a companion—has been key in measuring the masses of massive pulsars in a binary with a white dwarf [10]. The first such measurement, for PSR J1614-2230, yielded a mass of 1.908(16) M⊙ [11–13]. The second, PSR J0348+0432, was found to have M = 2 .01 ± 0.04 M⊙ using combined timing and optical modeling [14]. The most massive to date known neutron star, PSR J0740+6620, has a mea-sured mass of 2 .08 ± 0.07 M⊙ [15]. In general relativity, stability requires that stellar mass increase with central density according to the Bardeen– Thorne–Meltzer criterion [16], which is equivalent to the requirement that the oscillation modes of the star re-main stable on acsending branch of mass-central density curve. A measurements of massive pulsars, thus firmly establishes that the maximum mass of a neutron star should not be lower than the observed one (currently 

M ≃ 2 M⊙) setting a lower bound on the maximum mass allowed by any viable EoS. Gravitational-wave observations from binary neu-tron star mergers now provide complementary con-straints. The LIGO–Virgo detections of GW170817 and GW190425 [17, 18] enabled the measurement of tidal de-formability, which relates the induced quadrupole mo-ment Qij to the external tidal field Eij via 

Qij = −λE ij = − 23 k2R5Eij , (4) where λ is the tidal deformability parameter, R is the stellar radius, and k2 the Love number [19, 20]. It is seen that λ ∝ R5 showing its sensitivity to the EoS. Analyses under low-spin priors yielded effective (dimen-sionless) deformabilities ˜Λ ≃ 300 +500  

> −190

for GW170817 and an upper limit ˜Λ ≤ 600 for GW190425, implying radii 

R ≃ 11 − 13 .5 km for typical 1 .4 M⊙ stars [17, 18]. X-ray pulse profile modeling with the orbital NICER instrument has provided independent mass–radius con-straints. For PSR J0030+0451, analyses gave M =1.34–1 .44 , M ⊙ and R = 12 .7–13 .0 km [21, 22], while for PSR J0740+6620 NICER found R = 12 .4–13 .7 km [23, 24] and a mass consistent with that obtained from radio-timing observations quoted above. It is important to em-phasize that these constraints—like those inferred from gravitational-wave observations—do not correspond to single data points with 1 σ error bars, but rather to pos-terior probability regions in a two-dimensional param-eter space (e.g., the mass–radius or tidal deformabil-ity planes). Recent reanalyses (combining NICER with XMM-Newton data from 2023–2024) suggest radii that are consistent with or slightly smaller than earlier es-timates [25], with values around R ≈ 12 .3 ± 0.6 km, thereby favoring an EoS featuring a relatively steep rise in pressure beyond nuclear density to support massive neutron stars. In summary, combining pulsar timing, gravitational-wave, and NICER measurements jointly constrains the EoS: the maximum mass must exceed 2M⊙, while the radii of ∼ 1.4M⊙ to ∼ 2.0M⊙ stars clus-ter around ∼ 12–13 km, implying a weak dependence of the radius on the stellar mass. Binary neutron star systems containing two pulsars provide an exceptional natural laboratory for testing the predictions of relativistic astrophysics [26]. These rare systems enable a variety of precision tests of general rel-ativity, including measurements of orbital decay due to gravitational wave emission, Shapiro delay, and relativis-tic periastron precession. In addition to their role in test-ing gravity, such systems also offer valuable constraints on the EoS of dense nuclear matter, since pulsar tim-ing allows for highly accurate determinations of stellar masses and, potentially, moments of inertia. A particularly notable example is the double pulsar system PSR J0737 −3039, which consists of two active, radio-emitting neutron stars. This system is unique be-cause both stars are detectable as pulsars, allowing an unprecedented level of orbital and timing precision. Over long observational baselines, relativistic effects–especially the periastron advance–can be used to extract the mo-ment of inertia of pulsar A, denoted IA, solely from mea-surable post-Keplerian parameters, without relying on theoretical modeling of the EoS. This possibility was first highlighted by Lattimer and Schutz [27], who demon-strated that a measurement of IA to 10% accuracy could directly translate into strong constraints on the neutron-star EoS. Subsequent statistical analyses by Kramer et al. [26] have derived posterior probability distributions for the component masses and the moment of inertia of pulsar A, yielding the upper bound IA < 3.0 × 10 45 g cm 2

at the 90% confidence level. Continued timing obser-vations of PSR J0737 −3039 over the coming decade or 4so are expected to refine the measurement of relativistic parameters to the point where the empirical uncertainty on IA becomes comparable to that obtained from X-ray pulse-profile modeling by the NICER mission. Such a measurement would represent a major step forward, pro-viding a purely dynamical, model-independent determi-nation of a neutron star’s moment of inertia–and, by ex-tension, a stringent new test of dense-matter physics.  

> C. Equation of state

The role of spin in unpolarized neutron star matter, which is a good approximation for the magnetic fields typical of ordinary pulsars, B ∼ 10 12 −10 13 G, is straight-forward: it effectively doubles the phase space available to fermions at a given energy state, corresponding to the spin-up and spin-down configurations. From a mi-croscopic perspective, however, the interaction channels described by the partial wave expansion of the nuclear potential obey spin-isospin selection rules, so spin plays a nontrivial role. In low-density neutron matter, spin-singlet 1S0 in-teractions between neutrons dominate, as well as simi-lar interactions between protons which have much lower densities. In contrast, in symmetric nuclear matter, the dominant low-density interaction is the coupled-channel spin-triplet 3S1-3D1 interaction, which is, how-ever, suppressed at the extremely large isospin asymme-tries present in neutron stars and enforced by weak inter-actions which establish beta-equilibrium . At higher den-sities, P -wave channels become important; these contain both spin-singlet and spin-triplet contributions, specifi-cally the spin-singlet 1P1 and spin-triplet 3P0, 3P1, and 

> 3

P2-3F2 channels, the last of which dominates the pair-ing interaction between neutrons at densities above the saturation density ρsat .To gain a qualitative understanding of these interac-tions, it is useful to express the energy per baryon of nuclear matter as an expansion in a Taylor series 

E(χ, δ ) ≃ Esat + 12 Ksat χ2 + 16 Qsat χ3 + Esym (χ)δ2 + . . . 

(5) with 

Esym = Jsym + Lsym χ + 12 Ksym χ2 + 16 Qsym χ3 + · · · 

(6) where χ = ( ρ − ρsat )/3ρsat and δ = ( ρn − ρp)/ρ , with ρn

and ρp being the neutron and proton densities. We note that Eq. (5), apart from straightforward expansion in density, also corresponds to an expansion in the isospin asymmetry parameter δ, truncated at quadratic order (the parabolic approximation). While this approxima-tion is well justified near symmetric nuclear matter, its validity becomes less controlled for highly neutron-rich matter ( δ ∼ 1), where higher-order terms in δ may con-tribute non-negligibly. Its use in the neutron-star context is nevertheless supported by empirical evidence from mi-croscopic models, which indicate that the quadratic ap-proximation remains reasonably accurate even at large isospin asymmetry [28]. The symmetry energy expansion can incorporate hyperons by including the strangeness quantum number as an expansion parameter and redefin-ing the isospin asymmetry parameter [29]. The coefficients of the expansion of the symmetric nu-clear matter are the binding energy Esat , incompressibil-ity Ksat , and the skewness Qsat ; the coefficients of the density expansion of Esym (χ) are the symmetry energy 

Jsym , the slope and curvature parameters Lsym and Ksym ,and the skewness of symmetry energy Qsym . These are defined explicitly as 

Ksat = 9 ρ2sat 

d2E(χ)

dρ 2 , Qsat = 27 ρ3sat 

d3E(χ)

dρ 3 , (7) and 

Lsym = 3 ρsat 

dE sym (χ)

dρ , Ksym = 9 ρ2sat 

d2Esym (χ)

dρ 2 ,(8) where all derivatives are evaluated at ρ = ρsat . The expansion (5) is rooted in the infinite-matter limit of the Bethe–Weizs¨ acker nuclear mass formula. As such, its low-order coefficients are well constrained by experi-mental data on finite nuclei. In particular, the binding energy per nucleon at saturation, Esat ≃ − 16 .0 ± 1 MeV, the nuclear symmetry energy at saturation, Jsym ≃

32 .0 ± 2 MeV, and the saturation density itself, ρsat ≃

0.15 − 0.16 fm −3, are among the most reliably deter-mined quantities. Higher-order coefficients in the den-sity expansion, both in the isoscalar (7) and isovector (8) channels are less constrained by direct experiments. Instead, they have been studied using a combination of statistical Bayesian analyses [30–33], meta-modeling ap-proaches [34], and multimessenger observations of com-pact stars [35, 36]. In general, the validity of the Taylor expansion (5) is limited to the condition χ < 1, which corresponds to densities to a few times ρsat depending on the parametrization of density functional for nucle-onic models, but this estimate may change if additional degrees of freedom, such as hyperons or ∆-resonances, become relevant, or if deconfinement phase transition to quark matter occurs. Despite considerable progress, Ksat is still estimated within a relatively broad range, 200 ≲ Ksat ≲ 300 MeV . Heavy-ion collision experiments favor a relatively soft EoS, implying lower Ksat , although such conclusions re-main model-dependent. The skewness parameter Qsat ,which characterizes the third derivative of the energy with respect to density, remains largely unconstrained. Estimates in the literature vary widely, typically within 

−600 ≲ Qsat ≲ 1000 MeV. It is important to emphasize once again that the above constraints pertain specifically to nucleonic matter. Their applicability to dense mat-ter containing heavier baryons, such as hyperons or ∆ 50 200 400 600 800 1000 1200                      

> 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> Lsym=[30,...,110]
> DDME2(a)
> P [MeV fm-3]
> [MeVfm-3]
> Qsat=[-600,...,1000]
> 020040060080010001200
> 0
> 200
> 400
> 600
> (-600,50)
> (0,50)
> MPE
> DD2
> DDME2
> P [MeV fm-3]
> [MeVfm-3]
> (b)
> (800,50)
> 200400
> 0
> 50
> 100
> 30
> Lsym=110

FIG. 1: Variation of the nuclear equation of state with Qsat and Lsym in covariant density functional models. Family of EoS generated using covariant den-sity functional models with the parameters varied over the ranges Qsat ∈ [−600 , 1000] MeV (grouped by color) and 

Lsym ∈ [30 , 110] MeV; other parameters of covariant den-sity functional are fixed to that of DDME2 parametrization; for details see Ref. [37]. The inset highlights the impact of 

Lsym on the low-density region of the EoS for illustration. 

resonances, is uncertain and subject to ongoing investi-gation [6]. 

D. Mass, Radius, and Moment of Inertia 

The static properties of compact stars, in the simplest case assuming spherical symmetry (i.e., negligible rota-tion, and weak magnetic fields) are obtained by integrat-ing the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff equations [7, 8]. These equations represent the solution of Einstein’s field equations for a spherically symmetric mass distribution in hydrostatic equilibrium. To facilitate comparison be-tween theoretical predictions and observations, it is often useful to present results in terms of directly observable quantities, such as the stellar mass, radius, moment of inertia, and spin frequency. Figure 1 shows representative EoS of neutron star mat-ter with nucleonic degrees of freedom only constructed from a covariant density functional where the parame-ters Qsat and Lsym are varied to illustrate their effect on the pressure of matter [37]. The corresponding solu-tions of the Tolman-Oppenheimer-Volkoff equations are shown in Fig. 2 (a), where the mass-radius relations for neutron star matter with nucleonic degrees of freedom only are displayed along with the current astrophysical constraints. By systematically varying Qsat and Lsym ,one can directly relate microphysical properties of nu-clear matter to macroscopic observables, including the stiffness of the EoS, neutron star radii, tidal deformabili-ties, and gravitational-wave signatures from binary merg-ers for a given composition. Of course, such a procedure requires additional physical input—namely, assumptions about the composition of the deep interior of the star, whether purely nucleonic, admixed with heavy baryons, or involving phases featuring quark matter. This approach provides a powerful pathway to con-strain nuclear physics models through astrophysical data, establishing a direct connection between dense matter microphysics and observable neutron star phenomena. For completeness, we show in Fig. 2 (b), the moment of inertia as a function of mass for the same collection of EoS. The upper limit on the moment of inertia of the A pulsar IA ≤ 3 × 10 45 g cm 2 of PSR J0737 −3039 is fully consistent with the entire collection of the EoS given that its mass was estimated to be mA ≃ 1.34 M⊙.The possible appearance of heavy baryonic degrees of freedom—such as hyperons and ∆-resonances—in dense matter has important implications for the global proper-ties of neutron stars. Their inclusion is naturally accom-modated within covariant density functional approaches, which provide a flexible framework constrained by both laboratory data and astrophysical observations. The on-set of hyperons at supranuclear densities generally soft-ens the equation of state, leading to a reduction in the maximum mass of neutron stars—a tension commonly referred to as the hyperon puzzle , given the observation of compact stars with masses above 2 M⊙ [6, 39, 40]. Modern covariant density functional models address this issue by tuning the underlying couplings (e.g., within 

SU (6) or SU (3) symmetry schemes), thereby enabling sufficiently stiff equations of state that support massive stars while still allowing hyperonic degrees of freedom. In typical scenarios consistent with SU (6) symmetry, hyper-ons can constitute up to ∼ 20% of the stellar core com-position, with Λ hyperons becoming dominant at high densities. In contrast, models adjusted to reproduce very massive objects tend to suppress the hyperon fraction to only a few percent, effectively yielding nucleonic stars. Beyond static structure, heavy baryons also influence rotational properties, magnetic configurations, and ther-mal evolution. In particular, hyperons enable fast cool-ing via direct Urca processes [41], although this can be mitigated by hyperonic pairing, leading to a character-istic mass-dependent cooling behavior [42, 43]. Finite-temperature effects, relevant for supernovae and binary neutron star mergers, further promote the appearance of hyperons at lower densities. Overall, the inclusion of heavy baryons enriches the phenomenology of neutron stars, but their quantitative impact remains sensitive to poorly constrained interactions and many-body effects, making them a key target for future observational and theoretical studies [44]. Beyond purely nucleonic and hypernuclear stars, com-pact stars may also contain deconfined quark matter in their inner cores, leading to so-called hybrid stars. This possibility is particularly interesting because first-order phase transitions in dense matter can leave direct im-prints on global stellar properties. If the transition from hadronic to quark matter involves a sufficiently large 6(a) (b)                    

> FIG. 2: Mass–radius and moment-of-inertia–mass relations for nucleonic equations of state compared with multimessenger astrophysical constraints. (a) Mass–radius for nucleonic EoS models corresponding to different Qsat and
> Lsym pairs (in MeV) [37]. The colored regions indicate the 90% confidence interval (CI) ellipses from the two NICER analyses for PSR J0030+0451 and PSR J0740+6620 [21–24], the 90% CI regions for the two compact stars involved in the gravitational-wave event GW170817 [17] and the 90%CI for the mass of the secondary component in GW190814 [38]. (b) Moment of inertia vs mass for the same EoSs as in Fig. 2 for the indicated range of Qsat and Lsym (in MeV); the upper limit IA≤3×10 45 g cm 2
> at 90% CI on the moment of inertia extracted from PSR J0737 −3039 system (shown by vertical arrow) is well satisfied for the collection of EoSs, given that the pulsar mass mA≃1.34 M⊙.

jump in energy density, the resulting softening and sub-sequent re-stiffening of the equation of state can gen-erate new stable branches in the mass–radius diagram. In the simplest case, this gives rise to “twin” configu-rations, where two stars of the same mass have differ-ent radii and internal compositions, one being purely hadronic and the other containing a quark core [45–47]. If the phase structure of dense QCD matter is more intri-cate, with sequential transitions between distinct quark phases, the mass–radius relation may exhibit an even richer pattern, including additional stable branches and higher-order multiplets [48]. More generally, even in model-agnostic approaches, the presence of deconfined quark matter can manifest itself through nontrivial fea-tures in the EoS, such as a rapid variation of the speed of sound, which are consistent with current astrophysi-cal constraints and can significantly impact masses, radii, and tidal deformabilities [49]. In this sense, hybrid stars provide a natural extension of the discussion of heavy-baryon degrees of freedom: while hyperons soften the equation of state within the hadronic description, decon-finement introduces qualitatively new phases whose onset and stiffness can reshape the global properties of compact stars in a potentially observable way. We defer a detailed discussion of pairing, spin, and superfluidity in quark matter to Sec. VI, after presenting the physics of nucleonic phases. This ordering allows us to use the framework developed for nucleonic superfluids as a basis for comparison, highlighting both the analogies and the key differences that arise in quark matter, and providing a coherent entry point to the more specialized literature on this topic.  

> III. SPIN AND MAGNETIC FIELD

For the class of strong-magnetic-field compact stars, known as magnetars, the degeneracy with respect to the spin is lifted by the magnetic field–spin interac-tion [50, 51]. Magnetars appear as anomalous X-ray pul-sars, soft gamma ray repeaters, and as at least some of the fast radio bursts, which can be endowed with ex-ceptionally strong surface magnetic fields, typically in the range 10 14 –10 15 G. Theoretical models further indi-cate that the equilibrium configurations of compact stars can support even stronger internal magnetic fields, up to 

B ≲ 10 18 –10 19 G [52, 53]. In this range of fields, ob-servable effects on global parameters such as the stellar mass, radius, and moment of inertia occur. This is also a regime, where the star is close to the limit of gravi-tational stability predicted by virial-theorem arguments and confirmed by general-relativistic stellar models [52]. Microscopically, the influence of magnetic fields on the EoS of dense matter becomes significant when the mag-netic field energy associated with charged or magnetized particles approaches the characteristic Fermi energies of the system. Because the Fermi energy increases from the low-density outer layers toward the dense core, stronger magnetic fields are required to significantly modify the EoS at greater depths within the star [54–57]. 7In a charge-neutral, beta-equilibrated neutron-star core, the charged constituents—electrons, muons, and protons—are the primary carriers affected by the field. In a magnetic field, the transverse motion of charged par-ticles is quantized into Landau levels [58, 59]. For rela-tivistic electrons, assuming a g-factor of exactly 2 and a magnetic field in the z-direction, the energy spectrum takes the form 

En(pz ) = 

s

p2 

> z

c2 + m2

> e

c4



1 + 2 n BBc,e 



, (9) where n = 0 , 1, 2, . . . labels the Landau level, and pz

is the momentum along the magnetic field and Bc,e is a critical field defined below. Correspondingly, at zero temperature, the electron number density becomes 

ne = eB 

2π2ℏc

> nmax

X

> n=0

gnpF,n , (10) where gn = 2 − δn0 is the spin degeneracy factor, 

pF,n denotes the Fermi momentum along the magnetic-field direction for the n-th Landau level, and nmax =

⌊p2

> F, 0

Bce /(2 m2

> e

c2B)⌋ is the highest occupied Landau level. Relativistic effects associated with Landau quanti-zation become important once the cyclotron energy, 

eℏB/ (mc ), becomes comparable to the particle’s rest en-ergy mc 2. This defines a critical field strength for each particle species. For electrons, the critical field is 

Bc,e = ℏ

eλ 2

> e

= 4 .414 × 10 13 G, (11) where λe = ℏ/(mec) ≃ 400 fm is the Compton wave-length of the electron. For protons, the critical field is much higher, Bc,p ∼ 10 20 G, and likely exceeds the hy-drostatic stability limit. Quite generally, Landau quantization reduces the phase space available for charged particles by confining them to a limited number of occupied Landau levels, es-pecially when B ≳ Bc,e and only a few levels are pop-ulated. This modification of the density of states alters the pressure and energy density, typically leading to a softening of the EoS. In addition, it affects the compo-sition of matter through changes in the charge fraction 

YQ(nB ) = nQ/n B , where nB is the baryon density and 

nQ is the net charge density carried by all charged con-stituents, such as protons, electrons, muons, or, in the case of deconfined matter, quarks. This quantity charac-terizes how the electric charge content evolves with den-sity under the constraints of charge neutrality and beta equilibrium. The underlying reason is that the modified density of states for electrons (and, at sufficiently high fields, other charged species) alters the conditions of charge neutrality and beta equilibrium. As a result, the equilibrium pro-ton and lepton fractions can deviate from their field-free values, particularly at low densities where Landau level quantization is most pronounced. These changes can, in turn, influence macroscopic stellar properties, including the maximum mass and radius, and are therefore partic-ularly relevant for modeling strongly magnetized neutron stars (magnetars); for a broad review of these aspects see Ref. [51]. In the same field-strength range, additional effects arise from the anomalous magnetic moments of nucle-ons. Even though neutrons are electrically neutral, their intrinsic magnetic dipole moment couples directly to the magnetic field and contributes to both the energy den-sity and the composition of matter. The correspond-ing energy shift associated with this coupling is of order 

|κp + κn| B, which modifies the baryon single-particle en-ergies and, consequently, the conditions for beta equilib-rium in sufficiently strong magnetic fields. The exper-imentally determined anomalous magnetic moments of protons and neutrons are 

κp = μN

 gp

2 − 1



, κn = μN

gn

2 , (12) where μN = eℏ/(2 mp) is the nuclear magneton, and gp =5.58 and gn = −3.82 are the Land´ e g-factors for the proton and neutron, respectively. More explicitly, the single-particle spectrum for the baryons acquires a spin-dependent splitting in the pres-ence of a magnetic field. Since the protons are Landau quantized similarly to the electrons, their spectrum dif-fers from that of the neutrons in this way in addition to κp̸ = κp: these spectra are, ignoring nuclear interac-tions [53] 

Ep,s (pz ) = 

q

p2 

> z

c2 + [ Mp,n,s (B)c2 + sκ pB]2, (13) 

Mp,n,s (B) = mp

s

1 + 2 



n + 12 + s

2

 BBc,p 

, (14) 

En,s (pz , p ⊥) = 

s

p2 

> z

c2 +

q 

m2

> n

c4 + p2

> ⊥

c2 + sκ nB

2

,

(15) for s = ±1, n = 0 , 1, 2, ... in the definition of Mp,n,s (B), and where p⊥ is the momentum in the plane perpendic-ular to the magnetic field. The spin-dependent term lifts the degeneracy between spin-up and spin-down states and leads to a partial spin polarization of the bary-onic component. This effect becomes appreciable when the magnetic energy scale κbB, b = p, n , is compara-ble to the Fermi energy, which typically requires fields 

B ≳ 10 17 −10 18 G. As a result, both the neutron and pro-ton populations can become spin-polarized, altering the energy density and pressure, as well as shifting the beta-equilibrium condition through modified chemical poten-tials. For comparison, the effect of the magnetic field on electrons is qualitatively different and typically much stronger at lower field strengths due to Landau quan-tization. As discussed above, the electron single-particle 8spectrum becomes discretized in the plane perpendicular to the field, see Eq. (9), with a corresponding reduction of the available phase space when only a few Landau levels are occupied. This leads to oscillatory behavior in thermodynamic quantities as a function of density or magnetic field strength, known as de Haas–van Alphen oscillations, and significantly modifies the electron chem-ical potential. Together, these effects–Landau quantization for charged particles and spin polarization from anomalous magnetic moments for baryons–alter the composition of matter, including the charge fraction YQ(nB ), by mod-ifying the beta-equilibrium condition and the relative populations of particle species. While Landau quanti-zation dominates at relatively lower field strengths B ≳

10 13 − 10 14 G, the anomalous magnetic moment effects become important only at much higher fields, character-istic of the most strongly magnetized neutron stars. For typical neutron star core densities, nucleon Fermi energies lie in the range of a few to several tens of MeV above the rest mass energy. Therefore, once B/B c,e ≳

10 5, the anomalous magnetic moment contribution be-comes comparable to these energies, and their impact on matter composition and pressure cannot be neglected. In this extreme regime, the magnetic coupling of nucleon spins leads to complete spin polarization of neutrons. The alignment of neutron spins enhances the pressure contribution from the neutron sector, producing an over-all stiffening of the EoS that counteracts, and eventually dominates, the softening induced by Landau quantiza-tion. Thus, at the highest magnetic field strengths relevant for compact stars, the net effect on the EoS results from a competition between two mechanisms: (a) Landau quantization, which reduces the pressure by restricting charged particles to lower Landau levels, and (b) Spin polarization via anomalous magnetic moments, which in-creases the pressure through magnetization of the neu-tron component. The balance between these two effects determines whether the EoS becomes softer or stiffer in the presence of extreme magnetic fields. However, because the magnetic field provides ad-ditional support against gravity through both the Lorentz force and the electromagnetic stress-energy, self-consistent solutions of Einstein–Maxwell theory show that a star with the same baryon number can sustain a larger gravitational mass and radius than its unmag-netized counterpart [55, 56, 60]. The magnitude of this effect depends sensitively on the magnetic-field geome-try and the underlying EoS: it is most pronounced for globally ordered (with significant poloidal) field configu-rations. The current understanding of the stability and internal structure of magnetars suggests that mixed magnetic-field configurations, often referred to as twisted torus 

geometries, can provide long-term stability over secular timescales of millions of years, comparable to the active lifetimes over which neutron stars sustain their strong magnetic fields. Purely poloidal or purely toroidal field configurations are known to be unstable to various magnetohydrody-namic instabilities (e.g., kink or Tayler instabilities), whereas a combined configuration can achieve a stable equilibrium by mutually stabilizing these components. In a twisted torus configuration, the poloidal field threads the star and extends smoothly into the exterior, deter-mining the large-scale dipolar structure observed electro-magnetically, while the toroidal component is predomi-nantly confined to closed-field-line regions in the stellar interior, where it can reach strengths exceeding that of the poloidal field, see Fig. 3. Such configurations are supported by numerical solutions of the coupled Ein-stein–Maxwell equations for magnetized, self-gravitating fluids, and represent equilibria consistent with both rel-ativistic gravity and realistic equations of state [60, 61]. The presence of a substantial internal toroidal field also has important implications for the star’s deformation, stability, and potential gravitational-wave emission. More generally, the internal magnetic-field configura-tion of neutron stars is still not well constrained. While global models (e.g., mixed poloidal–toroidal field con-figurations) exist, they are subject to uncertainties re-lated to stability, composition, superconductivity, and coupling between different components. Direct observa-tional constraints probe the external dipolar field pri-marily, whereas the internal field strength and geome-try—particularly in the core—remain largely uncertain. Consequently, magnetic-field effects can be incorporated at a qualitative or phenomenological level, but a fully self-consistent microphysical and macroscopic description is still an open problem. At high densities, spin polarization effects can affect the phase structure of the baryonic matter. An extreme, but uncertain case, is the ferromagnetic phase transition, where the interaction causes a spontaneous transition to a polarized state even in the absence of the magnetic field. Both qualitative and quantitative evidence show that the threshold densities for ferromagnetic or highly spin-polarized phases lie generally at several times nu-clear saturation density. The precise threshold depends on the nuclear interaction model, external field, and tem-perature, with some models showing no evidence for such transition [63, 64]. Furthermore, hyperons/quark matter appear at high densities and could preempt ferromagnetic phases. Also, while pure neutron matter may or may not show ferromagnetic behaviour, stellar matter must be subject to electric charge neutrality, β-equilibrium [65], and one needs to take into account magnetic screening or shielding by superconductivity [66], all of which may alter viability of the ferromagnetic phase. Landau quantization of charged particles in a strong magnetic field affects several key microphysical processes in neutron stars. In the core, it modifies neutrino emis-sivity and shifts the threshold density for the direct Urca reaction [67, 68] and introduces Shubnikov–de Haas os-cillations in transport coefficients [69–71]. While in the 9          

> FIG. 3: Twisted-torus magnetic field structure in a magnetar showing coexisting poloidal and toroidal components. Spatial structure of a twisted-torus magnetic field, illustrating the coexistence of poloidal and toroidal com-ponents in a magnetar obtained with the XNS solver [62]. The color bar shows the magnetic field strength in units of 10 17 Gauss. The white lines trace the field lines; note that the toroidal component is confined to the equatorial region
> z≃0.

core of a neutron star, where multiple fermion species are Landau quantized, the EoS and other observables are not strongly altered for a physically relevant field strengths B ≤ 10 18 G [53], in the less-dense crust, these quantization effects are significant. This is especially true within the outer envelope with densities ρ ≲ 10 10 g/cm 3,where quantization effects enhance the thermal conduc-tivity parallel to the magnetic field. This generally re-sults in a higher effective surface temperature for a given envelope-crust boundary temperature for typical mixed dipole-toroidal field configurations [70, 72]. Landau quantization can alter the equilibrium nuclear composition and shift the neutron drip line to higher or lower densities, depending on the field strength [73]. Fur-thermore, the quantization of electrons and other charged fermions gives rise to de Haas–van Alphen oscillations in the differential magnetic susceptibility of matter. These oscillations can, in turn, induce the formation of diamag-netic domains (, introducing additional anisotropies in the crustal structure [74–76]. They can also enhance the dissipation of the magnetic field through the generation of small-scale field features of size 

ℓ ∼ eB ℏc μ e

 dz dμ e



∼ 230 

g14 μe10 

 B

10 14 G



cm (16) for electron chemical potential μe10 in units of 10 MeV, and gravitational acceleration g14 in units of 10 14 cm s−2 [77]. This is generally much smaller than the large-scale field with length scale of the order of the stellar radius R ∼ 10 − 13 km or crust thickness ∼ 0.1R.  

> IV. SPIN AND SUPERFLUIDITY IN NEUTRON STARS A. Pairing channels

Microscopically, spin determines the pairing patterns of fermions, leading to superfluidity and superconductiv-ity within the stellar interior (see Ref. [78] and references therein). Figure 4 shows the typical arrangement of su-perfluid/superconducting phases in the interior of a neu-tron star for a given composition. Neutrons in the crust and outer core are expected to pair predominantly in the spin-singlet 1S0 channel, while in the higher-density in-ner core they form pairs in the spin-triplet 3P2 channel. Protons, which are present at the few-percent level, pair mainly in the 1S0 state and form type-II at low densi-ties and type-I at high densities superconducting conden-sates. The interplay of these spin-dependent condensates governs glitch phenomena, vortex–flux tube interactions, neutrino emissivities, and the overall thermal and rota-tional evolution of neutron stars. Moreover, strong mag-netic field restructures the phase diagram of superflu-ids and superconductors: proton superconductivity may be suppressed at fields above the critical value, while the neutron 3P2–3F2 superfluid phases can acquire spin-aligned order parameters. These effects propagate into transport processes, including thermal and electrical con-ductivities, viscosities, and neutrino emission rates, all of which are sensitive to spin alignment and field strength. The spin–magnetic interaction thus emerges as a criti-cal ingredient in the microphysics of magnetars and in determining their observational signatures [51]. The role of spin in pairing in nuclear and neutron-star matter can be understood from the partial-wave anal-ysis of nucleon-nucleon ( N N ) scattering. Two-nucleon states are labeled using standard spectroscopic notation 

> 2S+1

LJ , where L = 0 , 1, 2, . . . corresponds to S, P, D, . . . 

waves, S = 0 , 1 indicates singlet or triplet spin states, and 

J is the total angular momentum. The Pauli principle requires that the total wave function, including spin and isospin, be antisymmetric, which imposes the condition 

L + S + T odd. At low energies, L = 0 states dominate, giving rise to the 1S0 and 3S1–3D1 coupled channels. In neutron-rich matter, where neutrons dominate, only T = 1 pairing is allowed, so the attractive 3S1–3D1 channel is forbidden. In contrast, symmetric nuclear matter can support T = 0 pairing in this channel. At asymptotically low densities, this may lead to a transition to a Bose-Einstein conden-sate of deuterons; however, higher-order clustering effects are also expected. Theoretical calculations of pairing are largely based on 10 0.5 11.5 22.5                  

> ∆ [MeV]
> 0.1 1
> n/n 0
> 0.01 0.1 1
> ni /n 0
> 1S0(p)
> 1S0(n)
> 3P2(n)
> npe
> μ
> FIG. 4: Density dependence of neutron and proton pairing gaps and corresponding particle composition in the neutron star core. Upper panel: Pairing gaps as functions of baryon density (in units of nuclear saturation density n0) for neutrons in the 1S0(solid lines) and 3P2–3F2
> (dash–dotted lines) channels, and for protons in the 1S0chan-nel (dashed lines). The shaded areas show the upper and lower bounds on neutron gaps; the upper and lower dashed lines show the same for proton S-wave gap, see Ref. [78] and references therein. Lower panel: Particle composition of the neutron star core at T= 0, corresponding to the conditions used in computing the pairing gaps. The vertical line marks the crust–core interface at n/n 0= 0 .5.

phase-shift–equivalent nucleon–nucleon potentials, such that the dominance of a given channel is constrained by experimental scattering phase shifts and, in the case of the 3S1–3D1 channel, by the existence of the deuteron bound state. However, the relative strength of different pairing channels can be significantly modified by many-body effects, which may either enhance or reduce the ef-fective attraction and thus alter the resulting pairing gap. In particular, medium polarization effects are known to play an important role, yet their quantitative impact re-mains uncertain, and no clear consensus has been reached regarding their magnitude [78]. In neutron-star matter, with neutron fractions around 95% at saturation and gradually decreasing at higher densities, T = 1 pairing dominates. Neutron pairing oc-curs in the 1S0 channel up to slightly above the crust-core interface, while proton pairing in the same channel persists to higher densities due to their lower Fermi en-ergies. At higher energies, the 3P2–3F2 coupled partial wave becomes the dominant T = 1 channel, while at lower-energies (and, thus, densities) 3P0 and 3P1 chan-nels are subdominant or repulsive.  

> B. Spin-1 pairing

The 3P2–3F2 pairing in neutron matter is of major phe-nomenological importance, since the neutron fluid fills most of the stellar core. This form of triplet, odd-parity pairing introduces several new features compared with 

> 1

S0 and 3S1–3D1 pairing [79]. Different magnetic sub-states can compete, while strong spin–orbit and tensor couplings mix the 3P2 and 3F2 waves. The microscopic treatment begins with a partial-wave expansion of the pairing interaction and a decomposi-tion of the gap into angular-momentum components. Be-cause the gap equation is nonlinear, these components are coupled. A common simplification is to average over angles, reducing the problem to a one-dimensional in-tegral equation. In most cases, a single channel dom-inates, but tensor forces couple the P - and F -waves, leading to a system of coupled equations similar to that found in the 3S1–3D1 channel at low densities and near isospin-symmetric nuclear matter. Quantitative predic-tions for the 3P2–3F2 pairing gap depend sensitively on three-nucleon (3N) forces, which become increasingly important as the density increases. Calculations using the Argonne V18 potential with the Urbana UIX 3N in-teraction [80] or the Bonn-B interaction, including 3N forces [81], typically yield a maximum gap of about 0.5 MeV, see Fig. 4. However, beyond mean-field BCS the-ory, effects such as wave-function renormalization can re-duce this value by an order of magnitude, see Ref. [82]. The gap is also strongly sensitive to the choice of 3N in-teraction and emphasize the need for consistency between two-and three-nucleon forces [83]. Importantly, neutron 

> 3

P2–3F2 superfluidity is of broad and interdisciplinary relevance, as it provides a concrete link between the mi-crophysics of dense nuclear matter in neutron stars and a wider class of systems exhibiting topological quantum order. In particular, its anisotropic, spin-triplet pair-ing and associated symmetry-breaking patterns closely parallel those realized in superfluid 3He, unconventional (e.g., heavy-fermion) superconductors, and engineered ultracold atomic gases, making it a valuable platform for exploring topological phases, collective excitations, and quantum vortices in different areas of physics. At even higher densities, isospin-symmetric nuclear matter favors 3D2 pairing, but increasing neutron–proton asymmetry drives a transition to 3P2–3F2 pairing. Be-cause even a small isospin imbalance destroys D-wave pairing [84], this state can exist only if the deep cores of neutron stars contain nearly symmetric matter, for ex-ample, when K− condensation sets in.  

> C. Suppression of pairing by magnetic field

Physical phenomena in dense, strongly interacting matter that depend on the quasiparticle spectrum near the Fermi surface are influenced by magnetic fields of order B ∼ 10 16 − 10 17 G, which are several orders 11 smaller than those required to affect the EoS, as argued in Sec. III. This is particularly relevant for nucleonic pairing and for neutrino radiation processes, which dominate the cooling of compact stars. The field interacts with neutron or proton spins, creating an imbalance between spin-up and spin-down particles, which suppresses Cooper pair-ing since not all spin-up particles have available spin-down partners [85]. This Pauli paramagnetic suppres-sion affects both neutron and proton condensates, but is the dominant mechanism for neutrons. Proton pairing, in contrast, is more sensitive to weaker fields through a different mechanism: the Larmor motion of charged pro-tons in the magnetic field, arising from their charge–field interaction [86, 87]. Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) superconductors are characterized by three length scales: (i) the London pen-etration depth δ, (ii) the coherence length ξ, and (iii) the interparticle distance d. In neutron stars, the con-densates satisfy the condition d ≪ δ, ξ , corresponding to the weak-coupling BCS regime. The ratio of the first two scales defines the Ginzburg-Landau parameter κGL = δ/ξ 

[88], which determines the type of superconductivity: 

κGL < 1/√2 corresponds to type-I, while κGL > 1/√2indicates type-II. In type-II superconductors, magnetic flux penetrates via quantized vortices carrying flux ϕ0 = πℏc/e , whereas in type-I superconductors, the field is either expelled or the matter is split into macroscopic domains of normal and superconducting domains, if the expulsion is ineffec-tive. Combining δ and ξ with ϕ0 defines three character-istic magnetic fields: 

Hc1 ≃ ϕ0

δ2 , Hcm ≃ ϕ0

ξδ , Hc2 ≃ ϕ0

ξ2 .

For type-II superconductors ( κGL ≥ 1/√2), fluxtubes exist in the field regime Hc1 ≤ Hcm ≤ Hc2: specifically, above Hc1, the formation of a single flux tube (Abrikosov vortex) becomes energetically favorable; at Hcm – the thermodynamic critical field – the energy densities of the superconducting and normal states are equal; finally, 

Hc2 corresponds to the field at which superconductiv-ity vanishes due to the overlap of vortex cores; thus, for 

H > H c2, superconductivity of protons is distroyed. The suppression of pairing in the 1S0-wave neutron condensate differs from that in the proton condensate be-cause charge-neutral neutrons interact with the B-field only via their spin magnetic moment (Pauli paramag-netism). The corresponding critical field for distruction of pairing by spin-polarization is by an order of mag-nitude larger [85]. In the neutron star’s core, neutron pairing shifts to the 3P2–3F2 channel, which involves to-tal spin-1 pairs; in this case, the magnetic field does not destructively affect the internal spin structure [89–91]. As density increases and the proton gap is diminished, their coherence length increases, and eventually the con-dition for proton type-I superconductivity κGL ≤ 1/√2is satisfied. For fields H > H cm , the matter is in the nor-mal state; otherwise, a (local) Meissner expulsion of the      

> FIG. 5: Neutron star cross section illustrating super-fluid vortex lattice, magnetic flux tubes, and spin-down–driven vortex motion. A cross-section of a neutron star perpendicular to the spin axis, illustrating the triangu-lar lattice of neutron vortices (shown not to scale) that carries the angular momentum of the neutron superfluid. The dipolar magnetic field is also shown, with its axis aligned along the tilted B-vector, together with the corresponding field lines, which in superconducting proton regions are confined to flux tubes. The red arrows indicate the radial outward motion of neutron vortices in response to the star’s secular spin-down.

field and break-up into normal-superconducting domains occurs. Quite generally, the absence or reduction of neutron superfluidity affects many crustal microphysical proper-ties, including neutrino emissivity, transport, thermal re-laxation, and dynamical coupling times, which in turn in-fluence the damping of oscillations and the interpretation of glitches and anti-glitches. While Pauli paramagnetism also applies to S-wave proton pairs, proton pairing is suppressed by the diamagnetic effect associated with the curvature of the proton trajectories in a magnetic field at lower fields, as discussed above, see also Ref. [51]  

> D. Quantum vorticity and mutual friction

The study of vorticity in nuclear systems is motivated by the rotation of neutron stars, where neutrons form a neutral superfluid that rotates via an array of quan-tized vortices [92]. While vortex states in finite nuclei have been conjectured, the condensate coherence length is comparable to or larger than nuclear radii, and one cannot speak of vortices in the usual sense. In con-12 trast, vorticity in neutron stars shares many features with laboratory superfluids and superconductors, includ-ing Bose-condensed 4He, fermionic 3He, and ultracold atomic gases [93]. In neutron stars, rotation at angular velocity Ω gener-ates neutron vortices with density 

n(V ) 

> n

= 2Ω 

κ , κ = πℏ

m∗

> n

, (17) where m∗ 

> n

is the neutron effective mass, while type-II pro-ton superconductivity produces electromagnetic vortices with density 

n(V ) 

> p

= Bϕ0

. (18) In general, the rotation and magnetic axes are mis-aligned, as illustrated in Fig. 5. As the star spins down due to magnetic dipole radiation braking, its rotation fre-quency decreases. According to Eq. (17), this implies a reduction in the neutron vortex density, which is achieved through an outward radial expansion of the vortex lat-tice (along the cylindrical radius), as indicated by the arrows in Fig. 5. The corresponding radial velocity of the vortices is 

vr = − ˙Ω2Ω 

!

r, (19) which follows from the conservation of the vortex number density nV .Both neutron vortex and proton fluxtube lattices are triangular, with basis lengths 

dn =

 κ

√3 Ω 

1/2

, dp =

 2 ϕ0

√3 B

1/2

, (20) which are of order 10 −4 cm and 10 −9 cm, respectively, for typical neutron-star parameters. These lengths define a mesoscopic scale for neutron-star superfluids, bridging the microscopic scale of the vortex core, set by the co-herence length ξ (where the superfluid order parameter vanishes) and the macroscopic scale of the stellar core or crust. The fermionic vortex core hosts quasiparticle bound states described by Bogolyubov–De Gennes theory [94]. While in the 1S0 condensate, neutron vortices are well-understood, the situation is more complex in the P -wave superfluid, which may exhibit non-trivial topolog-ical properties in analogy to the liquid 3He in the con-densed matter context. For example, Weyl and Majo-rana fermions can emerge as quasiparticle excitations in neutron 3P2 superfluids [95]. In addition, there are sev-eral branches of bosonic collective modes associated with the spin, in addition to the standard phonon and Higgs modes in S-wave superfluid [96–98]. It was recognized early on that quantum vortices in neutron 3P2 superfluids can exhibit spontaneous magne-tization [89–91]. More recent studies suggest that these vortices may also host Majorana fermions or split into half-quantized non-Abelian vortices [95, 99, 100]. At the interface between the 3P2 and 1S0 superfluid phases, topological surface defects may form [101]. Furthermore, because the phases of neutron S- and P -wave condensates are different on both sides of their interface, which acts as a Josephson junction, which can excite plasma waves under non-stationary conditions [102]. The subsequent dissipation of these waves can lead to heating. Another distinctive feature of the neutron 3P2 phase is its coexistence with the proton 1S0 superconductor. These two condensates are entrained, meaning that the motion of one induces motion of the other. In hy-drodynamic terms, their velocities and momenta are linked through a two-by-two entrainment matrix with off-diagonal elements coupling the neutron and proton superflows. A key phenomenological consequence of this entrainment is the appearance of a non-quantized magne-tization on neutron vortices [103, 104]—one that exceeds their intrinsic spin-induced magnetization—and thereby modifies their coupling to the normal electron and muon fluids [104]. Mutual friction arises from the interaction of vortices with the ambient non-superfluid components of neutron star matter and is central to understanding neutron-star rotational dynamics, including glitches and post-glitch relaxation [92, 105, 106]. Analogous dissipative mecha-nisms are well known in other quantum fluids, includ-ing both bosonic superfluid 4He and fermionic superfluid 

> 3

He, as well as in ultracold atomic Fermi gases. Neu-tron stars are nevertheless unique in that they involve the interplay of multiple condensates—most notably a neu-tron superfluid coexisting with a charged proton super-conductor—coupled to a relativistic, highly degenerate electron background under extreme conditions of density and gravity. For example, electrons scatter off neutron vortex-core quasiparticles via the coupling of their charge −e to the neutron magnetic moment. The electron relaxation time in an S-wave neutron superfluid is [107] 

τeV [1S0] = 1.6 × 10 3

Ω

ϵ2

> F e

∆

ϵ2

> F n

T

 ϵF n 

2mn

1/2

exp ϵ01/2

T

!

,

(21) where ∆ is the pairing gap, ϵF i are Fermi energies of electrons ( e) and ( n), ϵ01/2 is the lowest vortex-core state, and the angular velocity of rotation Ω enters via the vor-tex density n(V ) 

> n

. The collision rate τ −1 

> eV

is seen to be exponentially suppressed at low T .For a P -wave neutron superfluid, the order parameter is a traceless tensor Aμν ,

Aμν = ∆

√2 eiϕ f1 ˆrμ ˆrν + f2 ˆϕμ ˆϕν

− (f1 + f2)ˆ zμ ˆzν + if 3(rμ ˆϕν + rν ˆϕμ), (22) where f1,2,3(r) describe the radial profile [91]. P -wave vortices are intrinsically magnetized due to spin-1 13 Cooper pairs, and electron scattering off them yields a temperature-independent relaxation time [91] 

τeV [3P2] ≃ 7.91 × 10 8

Ω

 kF n 

fm −1

  MeV ∆

  ne

nn

2/3

.(23) where ni are the number densities of species, kF n is the neutron Fermi wave-vector. Furthermore, the entrain-ment of proton supercurrent by the neutron vortex cir-culation induces an effective vortex flux 

ϕ∗ = kent ϕ0, (24) where kent depends on the proton quasiparticle mass, en-hancing the vortex magnetization [103, 104]. The associ-ated electron relaxation time is [104] 

τ −1 

> eϕ

= 3π

32 

 ϵF e 

mpc2

 τ −10

keF δ , τ −10 = 2cn (V )

> n

keF 

 π2ϕ2

> ∗

4ϕ20



,(25) where keF is electron Fermi wavenumber, mp is the pro-ton mass. This relaxation depends weakly on temper-ature, reflecting its electromagnetic origin. A full treat-ment of mutual friction also involves interactions between neutron and proton vortices. If co-axial proton clusters are formed around neutron vortices, the coupling to the electron fluid may increase by orders of magnitude [108].   

> V. SUPERFLUIDITY AND ASTROPHYSICS OF COMPACT STARS A. Glitch behavior and recovery

Pulsar glitches are sudden jumps in their rotation rate and its derivative that interrupt the otherwise gradual spin-down of pulsars, first observed in the Vela pulsar PSR B0833–45. In the 2016 Vela event, the glitch rise was resolved on a pulse-to-pulse basis and constrained to last τr ≲ 16 s. The subsequent relaxation of both the rotation frequency and the spin-down rate ( ˙ ν), occur-ring over timescales from minutes to months, points to the presence of a loosely coupled superfluid component within the star [109]. A representative example of such a glitch and its post-glitch evolution in the derivative of the rotation rate of the Vela pulsar is shown in Fig. 6. It is seen that a rapid (exponential) recovery phase is fol-lowed by a quasi-linear long-term relaxation, which, in general, does not return to the pre-glitch extrapolated (in the absence of glitch) values, showing permanent fre-quency offsets. Glitches are observed to repeat in several young pulsars, most notably in Vela and the Crab, and across the pulsar population they span a wide range of magnitudes—from small events to so-called giant glitches—highlighting the richness of the underlying physics. From a theoretical perspective, this phe-nomenology raises several key questions: how and where     

> FIG. 6: Post-glitch evolution of the Vela pulsar’s spin-down rate illustrating fast relaxation and extended recovery. Illustration of the glitch and post-glitch relaxation in the rotational frequency derivative of the Vela pulsar PSR B0833–45, where the origin of time corresponds to the glitch. The initial, quasi-instantaneous jump in rotation rate is fol-lowed by an exponential relaxation over timescales of days to months, and subsequently by a quasi-linear long-term recov-ery extending over several years. Data points are adopted from Ref. [110], Fig. 5. The dashed line shows the secular spin-down derivative.

angular momentum is stored within the star, presum-ably in a superfluid reservoir; what mechanism enables its rapid release on such short timescales; and what cyclic process can sustain the quasi-regular recurrence of glitches. The dynamics of superfluid interiors provide the most promising framework for explaining glitch behav-ior. From a theoretical perspective, this involves the mo-tion of quantized vortices in a neutral superfluid—either neutrons in the crust and core or, potentially, superfluid condensates such as the CFL phase in quark matter. It is now understood that these dynamics operates in two distinct regimes, linear and nonlinear, depending on how the lag between the rotation of the superfluid and that of the normal component evolves under the influence of mutual friction and vortex pinning. In the linear regime, superfluid hydrodynamics pre-dicts a linear relation between the forces acting on vor-tices and the relative velocities (lags) between the super-fluid, the vortices, and the normal component. In partic-ular, the Magnus force depends on the lag between the superfluid and vortex velocities, while the mutual friction force depends on the lag between the vortex and normal component velocities. Restricting ourselves to the New-tonian case for clarity, the corresponding force balance equation on the vortices can be written as [111] 

ρS

h 

vS +⃗ ∇ × (λV ϖ) − vL



× κ

i

−η (vL − vN ) + η′ [( vL − vN ) × ϖ] = 0 , (26) where ρS and vS denote the superfluid density and veloc-14 ity, vN and vL are the velocities of the normal component and vortices, respectively, and κ characterizes the vortex circulation with ϖ = κ/κ , λV is the vortex tension and 

η′-term is the transverse friction (Iordanskii) force. Within the hydrodynamic framework, one can solve for the response of the normal component (the crust together with the charged plasma) to a sudden perturbation. The resulting evolution of the observable rotation frequency and its derivative in a multi-superfluid shell star is given by [110, 112] 

ν(t) = ν0 − ν0

τ0

t

− X

> i

ISi 

Ic

 ν0

τ0

τi − ∆νSi 

 

1 − e−t/τ i



, (27) ˙ν(t) = − ν0

τ0

− X

> i

ISi 

Ic

 ν0

τ0

τi − ∆νSi 

 e−t/τ i

τi

, (28) where ν0 is the pulsar’s rotation frequency at the ref-erence time (typically just before the glitch) and τ0 is the characteristic spin-down timescale, defined through the external torque acting on the star. Fitting these ex-pressions to observational data allows one to extract the characteristic coupling timescales τi and the associated superfluid moments of inertia ISi , given the moment of inertia of the normal component Ic, which to a good ap-proximation, is equal to the total moment of inertia of the star. The relaxation timescale appearing in Eqs. (27) and (28), which characterizes the exponential decay of the post-glitch response, can be related to the parameters entering the force balance equation (26) as [108, 113] 

τ = 12Ω s(0) 

 ηρS κ + ρS κη



, (29) where, for simplicity, we have suppressed the index i la-beling different superfluid regions. Here Ω s(0) is the ini-tial angular velocity of the superfluid, η denotes the mu-tual friction coefficient describing the interaction between vortices and the normal component (predominantly ul-trarelativistic electrons). In writing this expression, we have neglected the transverse friction term by setting 

η′ = 0. Notably, the dynamical relaxation time has a non-trivial dependence on the viscous friction coeffi-cient η. It takes on large values in two limiting cases 

η ≪ ρS κ and η ≫ ρS κ, corresponding to the weak- and strong-coupling limits between the vortices and the nor-mal component. The minimum of τd is achieved, when 

η = ρS κ with τd(min) = Ω −1 

> s

(0), which sets the absolute minimum on the relaxation time. Although the weak-coupling regime was initially in-voked to explain glitches—attributing the long relaxation times to weak coupling between vortices and the electron fluid [109]—an alternative picture emerged in the 1970s, inspired by the resistive state of type-II superconductors. In that context, for small driving currents, a vortex lat-tice responds via thermally activated motion, leading to an exponential creep of vortices through pinning centers. Vortex          

> Pinned vortex
> Nuclear cluster
> FIG. 7: Two regimes of vortex dynamics in the neutron star crust: free motion and thermally acti-vated creep of pinned vortices. Illustration of two distinct regimes of vortex dynamics in the neutron star crust: on the left, vortices move freely through the nuclear lattice (the un-pinned, linear regime), while on the right, vortices are pinned to lattice nuclei. In the latter case, vortex creep proceeds via thermally activated, jump-like motion of vortices from one pinning center to another.

Neutron star crusts host both a lattice of quantized vortices and a lattice of nuclear clusters, which coexist and interact with each other. The nuclear clusters can act as pinning centers, since certain configurations of a vortex relative to a cluster minimize the total energy of the system. This leads to the possibility of vortex pin-ning, where vortices become temporarily anchored to the crustal lattice. Fig. 7 illustrates two limiting regimes: on the left, vortices move freely under the action of forces in the linear (unpinned) regime, while on the right, vortices are pinned to the nuclear lattice. Building on this analogy, P. W. Anderson and N. Itoh [114] proposed that glitches arise from the sudden unpinning of a superfluid component that is otherwise decoupled from the observable crust, resulting in a rapid transfer of angular momentum. In more detail, before a glitch, the crust spins down under the action of an ex-ternal torque, while the superfluid component remains partially decoupled, leading to a gradual buildup of a rotational lag ∆Ω between the two components. When this lag exceeds a critical threshold, ∆Ω ≳ ∆Ω c, vortices that were previously pinned to the crust suddenly unpin. This triggers the glitch itself, which occurs on very short timescales (seconds or less) and involves a rapid transfer of angular momentum from the superfluid to the crust, resulting in Ω c increasing and Ω s decreasing. Follow-ing the glitch, the system undergoes a relaxation phase over timescales ranging from minutes to months, during which the superfluid and normal components gradually re-couple through mutual friction or vortex creep. This recovery is typically well described by exponential relax-ation with characteristic timescales τi.In crustal vortex creep models, the post-glitch relax-ation is governed by thermally activated vortex motion (see Ref. [115] and references therein), with a radial ve-15 locity 

vr ≈ v0 exp( −Ea/k B T ), (30) where v0 ∼ 10 7 cm s −1, and the activation energy is given by Ea ≈ Ep

 1 − ∆Ω /∆Ω c

. Here ∆Ω denotes the lag between the superfluid and the crust, ∆Ω c is the critical lag for unpinning, and Ep is the pinning energy. The evolution of the observable crustal angular velocity Ωc then follows 

Ic ˙Ωc = Next 

X

> i

Iis

2Ω is

r vir , (31) where Ic and Iis are the moments of inertia of the normal component and the i-th superfluid component, respec-tively, Ω is is the angular velocity of that component, r is the cylindrical radius, and Next is the external torque. A generic consequence of angular momentum conser-vation during a glitch, 

IcΩc + X

> i

IisΩis = const , (32) is that a sudden exchange of angular momentum be-tween the superfluid interior and the solid crust satisfies 

Ic∆Ω c + P

> i

(Iis∆Ω is) = 0. The observed amplitudes of large glitches—such as those in the Vela pulsar—require that a superfluid component with a fractional moment of inertia of order P 

> i

Iis/I ∼ 10 −2 participates in the dynamics, where I is the total stellar moment of iner-tia. Furthermore, analyses of Vela’s glitches over several decades indicate that these large events require at least 

≳ 1.4% of the star’s moment of inertia to be involved, thereby setting a lower bound on the superfluid reser-voir [116]. Although the crystalline lattice of the inner crust pro-vides a natural site for vortex pinning, it also introduces band-structure effects: neutrons occupy Bloch states rather than moving freely, which can substantially re-duce the effective superfluid fraction [117]. This finding implies that crust-only models are insufficient, since the moment of inertia associated with the crustal superfluid is significantly smaller. More recent work indicates that allowing interband transitions can restore the superfluid density to values approaching those of quasi-free neu-trons [118]. For complementary low-dimensional analy-ses, see Ref. [119]. Taken together, these results suggest that the super-fluid component responsible for large glitches may ex-tend beyond the crust, including part of the outer core, where neutron pairing in the 3P2 channel provides an additional reservoir of angular momentum required to reproduce the observed glitch magnitudes. If the core were devoid of proton flux tubes, the magnetization of 

P -wave neutron vortices, induced by entrainment, would couple the core superfluid to the normal component on timescales much shorter than those inferred from post-glitch relaxation [104]. However, the presence of proton flux tubes in the su-perconducting core can significantly modify this picture, as they may act as pinning centers for neutron vortices, thereby adding to the mutual coupling between the su-perfluid and the normal component [92]. As illustrated in Fig. 5, the motion of neutron vortices can be hindered through their interaction with the flux tube array. To some extent, this situation is analogous to the pinning of neutron vortices to the crustal lattice, although it occurs in the core and involves magnetic structures rather than nuclear clusters. In fact, core-based glitch models have been developed within the vortex–cluster framework, in which each neu-tron vortex is surrounded by a coaxial, dense mesh of pro-ton flux tubes whenever the entrainment-induced mag-netic field of the vortex exceeds the lower critical field for flux-tube formation [108]. In this regime, the elec-tron scattering off vortex clusters, dressing each neutron vortex leads to strong coupling limit ( η ≫ ρS κ), con-sequently, to long dynamical relaxation timescales con-sistent with observations [108, 120]. In the presence of toroidal fields, neutron vortex creep against the equato-rially distributed flux-tube arrays in the core can provide an alternative mechanism for glitch recovery [121]. The glitch mechanism itself may involve a combina-tion of vortex dynamics and crust quakes, the latter re-lieving stresses that accumulate as the star decelerates. In self-organized criticality models, avalanches of vortex unpinning can trigger glitches, producing scale-invariant, power-law distributions of glitch sizes and exponen-tial waiting-time distributions—features consistent with most pulsars except for Vela and PSR J0537–6910, which exhibit quasi-periodic behavior [106]. Small glitches may be suppressed when the number of freely moving vortices is limited or when mutual friction is reduced. Alternative or complementary triggers include crustal fractures and hydrodynamical instabilities within the su-perfluid interior and phenomena at the crust-core inter-face (for a review see Ref. [105]). In addition, both clas-sical and quantum (superfluid) turbulence may play an important role in the nonlinear dynamics of the super-fluid and in the coupling between its components [122]. Ref. [123] has leveraged the analogy between neutron stars and dipolar supersolids to gain full experimental access to the system. In particular, changes in the mo-ment of inertia arising from internal dynamics can now be accurately measured in the laboratory, providing a clear pathway to modeling neutron star glitches in con-trolled experimental settings. This approach opens new opportunities to investigate the microscopic mechanisms underlying glitches and to directly connect observed dy-namical signatures to internal vortex and lattice dynam-ics. Ref. [124] attributes neutron star glitches to quantum vortex networks formed at the interface between two su-perfluid phases in the core: a P -wave neutron superfluid in the inner core and an S-wave neutron superfluid in the outer core. In this configuration, each integer vortex in 16 the S-wave superfluid connects to two half-quantized vor-tices in the P -wave superfluid via topological structures known as “boojums” [124]. The crust–core interface may act as a trigger for glitches because it can serve as a bar-rier for proton flux tubes dressing neutron vortices, pre-venting their continuous annihilation. Furthermore, on secular timescales, the interface between the S-wave and 

P -wave superfluids can radiate energy due to the time-dependent Josephson current induced by vortex plus flux-tube motion. Such Josephson current arises because the phases of S-wave and P -wave superfluids differ on both side of their interface [102]. The microphysics of pairing plays a central role in de-termining which regions of a neutron star participate in glitch dynamics. Since superfluidity (and superconduc-tivity) is a prerequisite for vortex-mediated angular mo-mentum transfer, any region where pairing is suppressed is effectively excluded from contributing to glitches. For example, strong magnetic fields may quench proton su-perconductivity in parts of the core, thereby modifying or eliminating flux tube–vortex interactions and altering the coupling between components. At the same time, vortex creep models are directly sensitive to the under-lying pairing properties, as the pinning energies and mo-bility of vortices depend on the magnitude of the pairing gap. If the neutron pairing gap is reduced or suppressed in the crust, the available superfluid reservoir there may be insufficient to account for observed glitch amplitudes, implying that the core superfluid must play a partial or even dominant role in glitch activity and post-glitch re-laxation. It is important to note that pairing in neutron stars can, to a good approximation, be described within the BCS (weak-coupling) regime. A strong-coupling regime—associated with very low densities and large pairing gaps—is only marginally realized near the low-density boundary between the inner and outer crust, and does not play a significant role in the bulk of the star.  

> B. Long-term variabilities

Apart from glitches, neutron stars may exhibit com-plex long-term rotational variability arising from the in-terplay between their solid crust and superfluid interior. The classical-like free precession, familiar from rigid-body dynamics, involves the slow rotation of the sym-metry axis about the total angular momentum vector. In stars with weakly coupled superfluids, this mode can persist for months or years with the frequency essentially that of classical precession: 

ωslow ≃ ϵΩ, (33) 

ϵ is the eccentricity, and Ω is the stellar rotation rate. Superimposed on this is a fast precession mode associated with the independent motion of the neutron superfluid. Its frequency scales as 

ωfast ∝ Is

In

Ω. (34) This mode arises because the superfluid vortices intro-duce additional degrees of freedom relative to a classical rigid body [125–127]. Tkachenko waves provide another source of long-term variability in neutron stars [128, 129]. The Tkachenko mode frequency in the non-dissipative limit is given in units of 2Ω by 

pT = ±pcos θ + g, (35) where θ is the angle between the rotation (spin) axis– i.e. the vortex-line direction–and the wave vector k

and g ≡ (k2/4Ω 2ρn) [ μn − cos θ (μn − 2Ω λV )], where ρn

is the superfluid density, λV is the vortex tension, and 

μn = ρnℏΩ/8mn is the shear modulus of the triangular vortex lattice. It is useful to consider the limiting cases of the angular dependence of the Tkachenko modes, specif-ically in the case of parallel propagation ( θ = 0): 

pT = ±



1 + k2

2Ω ρn

λV

1/2

, (36) showing that the mode is dominated by vortex-line ten-sion. In the case of perpendicular propagation ( θ = π/ 2): 

pT = ± k

2Ω 

r μn

ρn

, (37) which gives the standard Tkachenko elastic scaling. For a general θ the cos θ term acts as a geometric “gap”, while the k2 term encodes lattice elasticity and vortex tension. Physically, this reflects the crossover from transverse shear oscillations of the vortex lattice (for k ⊥ Ω) to longitudinal distortions along vortex lines (for k ∥ Ω), which is exactly what one expects in a ro-tating superfluid or supersolid. We note that in a uniformly rotating system, the full low-frequency spectrum contains in addition to Tkachenko modes (originating from elastic shear defor-mations of the vortex lattice, with restoring forces pro-vided by the lattice shear modulus and vortex line ten-sion), the inertial modes, which exist without a vortex lattice. They are restored purely by the Coriolis force and have frequencies pI = ± cos θ in units of 2Ω. These modes are non-dispersive, i.e., independent of k at lead-ing order, and vanish for k ⊥ Ω.The influence of mutual friction on Tkachenko modes in liquid 4He was first studied in Ref. [130]. This framework was later generalized to include the effects of shear viscosity in the normal component and applied to neutron stars’ interiors in Ref. [129] using Newtonian dissipative superfluid hydrodynamics. In that context, Tkachenko modes were found to have characteristic pe-riods ranging from months to years, depending on the 17 rotation rate Ω, naturally matching the long-term peri-odicities observed in pulsars. The observable variabil-ity is further shaped by mutual friction between vortices and the normal fluid, which damps both precessional and Tkachenko motions. In the weak-coupling regime, one expects combined sig-natures of long post-glitch relaxation times together with the possibility of quasi-free precession. In contrast, in the strong-coupling limit, precession is strongly suppressed due to efficient coupling between the superfluid and the normal component, although long-term glitch relaxation can still persist. Tkachenko modes—low-frequency os-cillations of the vortex lattice—are likewise sensitive to the dissipative properties of the medium: they are sig-nificantly modified by mutual friction and shear viscos-ity [129], while bulk viscosity does not enter the char-acteristic equations governing these modes and therefore has no direct impact on their dynamics. In our review, we adopted a Newtonian multi-fluid hydrodynamic framework, which captures the essential features of superfluid dynamics, vortex motion, and the coupling between superfluid and normal components rel-evant for glitch phenomena. This approach provides a transparent and tractable description of the underlying physics. However, fully relativistic formulations of super-fluid hydrodynamics do exist [131, 132]. More recently, frameworks [133–135] have been developed to account for finite temperature and/or multiple components, incor-porating vortices, flux tubes, and mutual friction; such formulations link microscopic physics to macroscopic dy-namics, keeping the general-relativistic framework intact on all scales.   

> VI. SPIN, SUPERFLUIDITY, AND VORTICITY IN QUARK MATTER A. Color superconductivity in quark matter

Building on the discussion of pairing in nucleonic mat-ter, similar pairing phenomena are expected to occur in deconfined quark matter at sufficiently high densi-ties, where quarks form Cooper pairs due to attrac-tive channels in the underlying QCD interaction; for a broad overview, see Ref. [136]. This leads to the emer-gence of color-superconducting phases, whose structure depends on the number of quark flavors participating, their masses, and the mismatch between their Fermi sur-faces imposed by beta equilibrium. The simplest and most robust phase at intermediate densities is the two-flavor color-superconducting (2SC) phase [137], in which up and down quarks pair in a color-antitriplet channel, leaving one color unpaired. At asymptotically high densities, where the strange quark becomes effectively light and Fermi momenta are nearly equal, the color–flavor-locked (CFL) phase is ex-pected to be the ground state [138]. In this phase, all three flavors participate symmetrically in pairing, leading to a fully gapped spectrum and peculiar properties such as the absence of electrons (in the simplest approxima-tion). Kaon condensation can reintroduce electrons once stress due to finite strange quark mass or charge neutral-ity drives the system away from exact symmetry, leading to the breaking of the corresponding flavor symmetries and the onset of meson-condensed phases [139, 140]. At densities relevant for neutron stars, however, these idealized pairing patterns are further modified by the stress induced by finite strange quark mass and chem-ical potential differences between flavors. This can give rise to phases with broken spatial symmetries, such as Fulde–Ferrell–type phases where Cooper pairs carry nonzero momentum [141], or phases with deformed Fermi surfaces [142]. These possibilities highlight that, much like in nucle-onic matter, the pairing structure in quark matter is rich and sensitive to microscopic conditions. The resulting phases can significantly affect transport and neutrino emission, and therefore play an important role in de-termining the observable properties of hybrid stars [136, 143]. Somewhat similarly to nucleonic matter, in color-superconducting phases of dense quark matter, magnetic fields couple to quark spins and electric charges, leading to Fermi surface mismatches between pairing species and thereby suppressing Cooper pairing via a Pauli param-agnetic–type mechanism; in this context, the magnetic field and the finite strange quark mass play competing and qualitatively similar disruptive roles. An additional parallel with nucleonic matter arises from the coupling of charged quarks to the magnetic field, which induces Landau quantization and modifies the pairing structure. These effects are particularly relevant for phases such as 2SC and CFL, where it has been shown that magnetic fields can significantly alter the gap structure, induce anisotropies, and even lead to the emergence of novel pairing patterns. In particular, studies of the CFL phase in a magnetic field demonstrate the splitting of pair-ing gaps and the appearance of magnetically modified CFL phase, while analyses of more general quark mat-ter phases indicate that magnetic fields can favor pseu-doscalar condensates and modify the phase diagram in a nontrivial way [144, 145]. In color-superconducting quark matter, the response to magnetic fields is more subtle than in conventional superconductors due to the mixing between the electro-magnetic gauge field and a component of the gluon field. In particular, the diquark condensate breaks the original 

U (1) em symmetry, but leaves unbroken a rotated U (1) ˜Q

symmetry corresponding to a linear combination of the photon Aμ and the 8th gluon G8

> μ

. The resulting massless gauge field, 

A ˜Qμ = Aμ cos θ − G8 

> μ

sin θ, (38) defines the so-called rotated photon, while the orthogonal combination, 

AXμ = Aμ sin θ + G8 

> μ

cos θ, (39) 18 acquires a Meissner mass. The mixing angle θ is deter-mined by the electromagnetic and strong coupling con-stants, typically satisfying tan θ ∼ e/g ≪ 1, so that the rotated photon is predominantly electromagnetic [146]. As a consequence, magnetic fields associated with the unbroken U (1) ˜Q can penetrate the medium, while those coupled to the massive X field are screened. In the 2SC phase, this leads to partial penetration of magnetic flux and a modified Meissner effect, rather than com-plete expulsion as in ordinary superconductors. In the color-flavor-locked (CFL) phase, the response to mag-netic fields is governed by a similar mixing between the electromagnetic gauge field and a gluon, but with an im-portant difference arising from the fully symmetric par-ticipation of all three flavors in pairing. A key distinction of the CFL phase is that all quark quasiparticles are neu-tral under the rotated charge ˜Q. As a result, the medium is an insulator with respect to U (1) ˜Q, and no electrons are required to ensure charge neutrality in the idealized limit. Magnetic fields associated with the massless ro-tated photon can therefore penetrate the CFL phase es-sentially unimpeded, while the orthogonal X component is screened over a short length scale. Consequently, the CFL phase does not exhibit a conventional Meissner ef-fect for ordinary magnetic fields, but instead allows par-tial penetration determined by the projection onto the unbroken U (1) ˜Q sector.  

> B. Quantum vorticity in quark matter

If the color-superconducting phase is of type II with respect to the X field, the corresponding lower critical field is very large, H(X) 

> c1

∼ 10 17 G [146]. Nevertheless, this does not preclude the formation of color-magnetic flux tubes. During the transition into the superconduct-ing phase, X-flux can become trapped between growing superconducting domains and subsequently compressed. As these domains merge, the local magnetic field in the remaining normal regions can exceed H(X) 

> c1

, leading to their fragmentation into Abrikosov-like flux tubes that carry quantized X-flux. In contrast, in the CFL phase all quark quasiparti-cles are neutral under the rotated charge ˜Q, so that the medium behaves as an insulator with respect to the un-broken U (1) ˜Q, and magnetic fields associated with the ro-tated photon can penetrate essentially unimpeded, while the orthogonal X component remains screened. Futhre-more, in the CFL phase, breaking of baryon number im-plies superfluidity, so vortices must appear under rota-tion; however, the energetically favored defects are not simple U (1) B vortices, as discussed in the nucleonic case, but non-Abelian semi-superfluid vortices that carry both fractional circulation and color-magnetic flux [147]. The CFL matter supports semi-superfluid strings/flux tubes, and later work clarified that the minimal CFL vortices are (1/3)-quantized objects with long-range repulsion, suggesting the formation of a vortex lattice. These vor-tices also support nontrivial low-energy degrees of free-dom in their cores, including orientational modes and, in some treatments, gapless fermionic modes. It is also worth noting that vorticity has been exper-imentally observed in the quark–gluon plasma created in relativistic heavy-ion collisions [148]; however, unlike the quantized vortices in superfluids, vorticity in the quark–gluon plasma is a property of a relativistic fluid without long-range phase coherence, and therefore dif-fers fundamentally in its microscopic origin despite some formal analogies. An important question for neutron stars is how such quark vortices connect to hadronic vortices across ahadron–quark interface. Earlier work on colorful boo-jums showed that junction structures can arise when neu-tron and proton vortices from hadronic matter penetrate a CFL core, with the boojum acting as the interface where hadronic circulation is redistributed into color-carrying CFL vortices[149]. Related studies [150] discuss vortex continuity and argue that, in crossover scenarios, hadronic vortices may connect to non-Abelian CFL vor-tices. Ref. [151] showed that in three-flavor symmetric matter, a singly quantized hadronic vortex can connect smoothly to a singly quantized non-Abelian CFL vortex, so a boojum is not always required. Because CFL vor-tices carry color-magnetic flux, they are often described as simultaneously superfluid and magnetic defects [152]. Altogether, the vortex sector of quark matter is likely to play a central role in determining the rotational and magnetic properties of hybrid stars. Altogether, the vor-tex sector of quark matter is likely to be central for the rotational, magnetic, and transport properties of hybrid stars. In particular, in the 2SC phase, color-magnetic flux tubes interact with gapless fermionic excitations via the Aharonov–Bohm scattering [146], leading to a significant drag force that can strongly influence their dynamics and mobility, and thereby affect magnetic field evolution and transport properties in the stellar core. In quark matter phases, there is a close analogy to vor-tex pinning in neutron-star hadronic phases, where vor-tices interact with the nuclear lattice in the crust or with proton flux tubes in the core. It turns out that in phases with broken spatial symmetries, such as Fulde–Ferrell or more general crystalline phases [153], the structure of vortices becomes even more intricate. In these phases, the pairing gap varies periodically in space, and the or-der parameter carries finite momentum. Consequently, vortices are embedded in an inhomogeneous background, leading to anisotropic cores and modified tension and mo-bility. The periodic modulation of the condensate can act as an intrinsic pinning lattice for vortices, while the pres-ence of rotated electromagnetism implies that magnetic flux and superfluid circulation may be intertwined in a nontrivial way. These features suggest that quark mat-ter phases with broken spatial symmetries can exhibit qualitatively new vortex and flux-tube dynamics, with potential implications for angular momentum transport and glitch phenomena in hybrid stars. 19  

> VII. CONCLUSIONS

We have reviewed selected aspects of the interior physics of compact stars, with particular emphasis on the microscopic and macroscopic manifestations of spin, magnetic fields, and nucleonic superfluidity and super-conductivity. Spin plays a fundamental role in the sta-bility of neutron stars, which are supported by the de-generacy pressure of fermionic matter. In describing the EoS of dense matter, we adopted a phenomenolog-ical (meta-modeling) approach based on an expansion of the nuclear-matter energy density around the isospin-symmetric limit and near saturation density. This frame-work enables the generation of families of EoSs that can be employed in the general-relativistic stellar-structure equations to determine global stellar observables such as mass, radius, and moment of inertia. We reviewed the current state of observational con-straints and discussed prospects for improving them through forthcoming multi-messenger observations. We also examined the influence of magnetic fields on the EoS of dense matter, noting that significant modifi-cations require extremely strong fields and may in-volve the emergence of spin-polarized or ferromagnetic phases—possibilities that remain highly uncertain at the densities relevant to neutron-star interiors. At the mesoscopic scale, the interplay between super-fluid and superconducting components gives rise to a rich variety of vortex and flux-tube phenomena. Neu-tron superfluid rotation proceeds through the formation of a quantized vortex lattice, while protons form a type-II superconductor characterized by critical fields consis-tent with those expected in neutron-star cores. Pin-ning interactions—between vortices and nuclei in the crust or between vortices and magnetic flux tubes in the core—provide a natural mechanism for understand-ing the non-stationary rotational dynamics of neutron stars. Outstanding issues include the internal structure of 

> 3

P2–3F2 vortices, the possible emergence of type-I su-perconductivity in the deep core, the configuration and dynamics of proton flux tubes, the magnitude of mutual friction coefficients in different pairing regimes, and the extent of crustal entrainment. The dynamics at the meso-scopic scale connects directly to macroscopic models of pulsar glitches and post-glitch relaxation, which remain unresolved regarding the precise location and extent of the superfluid regions responsible for short- and long-term relaxation processes. While several generic glitch triggers are qualitatively understood, a quantitative de-scription remains incomplete. Major open problems in-clude identifying the location and nature of glitch activity (crustal, core, or mixed), determining the components responsible for post-glitch recovery, and explaining the observed diversity of glitch behavior. We have also reviewed the possible role of decon-fined quark matter and color superconductivity in the inner cores of hybrid stars. The rich pairing struc-ture of dense QCD gives rise to a variety of supercon-ducting phases, each with distinct transport and mag-netic properties. In particular, color-superconducting phases support novel vortex configurations, including color-magnetic flux tubes in the 2SC phase and non-Abelian semi-superfluid vortices in the CFL phase, which intertwine superfluid circulation with rotated electro-magnetic flux. In the CFL-like phases, these structures may play an important role in the rotational dynam-ics of hybrid stars, providing additional channels for an-gular momentum transfer and mutual friction, though such mechanisms as scattering of electrons and quarks off color-magnetic defects via Aharonov–Bohm interac-tions. At the same time, the modified electromagnetic re-sponse of color-superconducting matter, governed by ro-tated gauge fields, may affect the evolution and topology of magnetic fields in the stellar core. While these possibil-ities remain model-dependent and subject to significant uncertainties in the QCD phase diagram at neutron-star densities, they underscore the potential of quark matter to leave observable imprints on both the rotational and magnetic behavior of compact stars. In conclusion, ongoing and forthcoming multi-messenger observations—across the electromagnetic spectrum and through gravitational-wave detec-tions—are expected to provide crucial insights into the structure and dynamics of neutron stars. These observations will offer essential feedback for refining the-oretical models, linking microscopic nuclear interactions to macroscopic astrophysical observables, and thereby deepening our understanding of strongly interacting matter under extreme conditions. 

> Acknowledgements

A. S. acknowledges support through Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft Grant No. SE 1836/6-1 and the Polish NCN Grant No. 2023/51/B/ST9/02798. P. B. R. is supported by the Simons Foundation through a SCEECS postdoctoral fellowship (grant No. PG013106-02).            

> [1] G. E. Uhlenbeck and S. A. Goudsmit, Spinning electrons and the structure of spectra ,Nature 117
> (1926) 264–265. [2] W. Pauli, Ueber den zusammenhang des abschlusses der elektronengruppen im atom mit der komplexstruktur der spektren ,Zeitschrift f¨ ur Physik 31
> (1925) 765–783. [3] W. Pauli, Zur quantenmechanik des magnetischen elektrons ,Zeitschrift f¨ ur Physik 43 (1927) 601–623. [4] P. A. M. Dirac, The quantum theory of the electron ,

20 

Proceedings of the Royal Society of London. Series A, Containing Papers of a Mathematical and Physical Character 117 (1928) 610–624. [5] J. M. Lattimer and M. Prakash, The Physics of Neutron Stars , Science 304 (2004) 536–542, [astro-ph/0405262 ]. [6] A. Sedrakian, J. J. Li and F. Weber, Heavy baryons in compact stars , Prog. Part. Nucl. Phys. 131 (2023) 104041, [ 2212.01086 ]. [7] R. C. Tolman, Static solutions of einstein’s field equations for spheres of fluid , Phys. Rev. 55 (1939) 364–373. [8] J. R. Oppenheimer and G. M. Volkoff, On massive neutron cores , Phys. Rev. 55 (1939) 374–381. [9] L. D. Landau and E. M. Lifshitz, Statistical physics, Part 1 . Pergamon Press, New York, 1980. [10] I. I. Shapiro, Fourth test of general relativity , Phys. Rev. Lett. 13 (1964) 789–791. [11] P. Demorest, T. Pennucci, S. Ransom, M. Roberts and J. Hessels, Shapiro Delay Measurement of A Two Solar Mass Neutron Star , Nature 467 (2010) 1081–1083, [1010.5788 ]. [12] NANOGrav collaboration, Z. Arzoumanian et al., 

The NANOGrav 11-year Data Set: High-precision timing of 45 Millisecond Pulsars , Astrophys. J. Suppl. 

235 (2018) 37, [ 1801.01837 ]. [13] H. T. Cromartie et al., Relativistic Shapiro delay measurements of an extremely massive millisecond pulsar , Nature Astron. 4 (2019) 72–76, [ 1904.06759 ]. [14] J. Antoniadis, P. C. Freire, N. Wex, T. M. Tauris, R. S. Lynch et al., A Massive Pulsar in a Compact Relativistic Binary , Science 340 (2013) 6131, [1304.6875 ]. [15] E. Fonseca et al., Refined Mass and Geometric Measurements of the High-mass PSR J0740+6620 ,

Astrophys. J. Lett. 915 (2021) L12, [ 2104.00880 ]. [16] J. M. Bardeen, K. S. Thorne and D. W. Meltzer, ACatalogue of Methods for Studying the Normal Modes of Radial Pulsation of General-Relativistic Stellar Models , Astrophys. J. 145 (1966) 505. [17] LIGO Scientific Collaboration and Virgo Collaboration collaboration, B. P. Abbott, R. Abbott, T. D. Abbott, F. Acernese, K. Ackley, C. Adams et al., Properties of the binary neutron star merger gw170817 , Phys. Rev. X 9 (2019) 011001. [18] B. P. Abbott, R. Abbott, T. D. Abbott, S. Abraham, F. Acernese, K. Ackley et al., GW190425: Observation of a Compact Binary Coalescence with Total Mass ∼

3.4 M ⊙, Astrophys. J. Lett. 892 (2020) L3, [2001.01761 ]. [19] E. E. Flanagan and T. Hinderer, Constraining neutron-star tidal love numbers with gravitational-wave detectors , Phys. Rev. D—Particles, Fields, Gravitation, and Cosmology 77 (2008) 021502. [20] T. Hinderer, Tidal Love numbers of neutron stars ,

Astrophys. J. 677 (2008) 1216–1220, [ 0711.2420 ]. [21] T. E. Riley, A. L. Watts, S. Bogdanov et al., A

N ICER View of PSR J0030+0451: Millisecond Pulsar Parameter Estimation , Astrophy. J. Lett. 887 

(2019) L21, [ 1912.05702 ]. [22] M. C. Miller, F. K. Lamb, A. J. Dittmann et al., PSR J0030+0451 Mass and Radius from N ICER Data and Implications for the Properties of N eutron Star Matter , Astrophys. J. Lett. 887 (2019) L24, [1912.05705 ]. [23] T. E. Riley, A. L. Watts, P. S. Ray et al., A NICER View of the Massive Pulsar PSR J0740+6620 Informed by Radio Timing and XMM-Newton Spectroscopy ,

Astrophy. J. Lett. 918 (2021) L27, [ 2105.06980 ]. [24] M. C. Miller, F. K. Lamb, A. J. Dittmann et al., The Radius of PSR J0740+6620 from NICER and XMM-Newton Data , Astrophy. J. Lett. 918 (2021) L28, [ 2105.06979 ]. [25] S. Vinciguerra, T. H. J. Salmi, A. L. Watts, D. Choudhury, T. E. Riley, P. S. Ray et al., An updated mass–radius analysis of the 2017–2018 nicer data set of psr j0030+0451 , Astrophys. J. 961 (2024) 62. [26] M. Kramer, I. H. Stairs, R. N. Manchester, N. Wex, A. T. Deller, W. A. Coles et al., Strong-field gravity tests with the double pulsar , Phys. Rev. X 11 (2021) 041050. [27] J. M. Lattimer and B. F. Schutz, Constraining the equation of state with moment of inertia measurements , Astrophys. J. 629 (2005) 979–984. [28] S. Gandolfi, J. Carlson and S. Reddy, The maximum mass and radius of neutron stars and the nuclear symmetry energy , Phys. Rev. C 85 (2012) 032801. [29] Y. Yang, N. C. Camacho, M. Hippert and J. Noronha-Hostler, Symmetry-energy expansion with strange dense matter , Phys. Rev. C (2026) –, [2504.18764 ]. [30] S. M. A. Imam, N. K. Patra, C. Mondal, T. Malik and B. K. Agrawal, Bayesian reconstruction of nuclear matter parameters from the equation of state of neutron star matter , Phys. Rev. C 105 (2022) 015806. [31] W.-J. Xie and B.-A. Li, Bayesian inference of the incompressibility, skewness and kurtosis of nuclear matter from empirical pressures in relativistic heavy-ion collisions , J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 48 

(2021) 025110, [ 2001.03669 ]. [32] J.-J. Li, Y. Tian and A. Sedrakian, Bayesian inferences on covariant density functionals from multimessenger astrophysical data: Nucleonic models ,

Phys. Rev. C 111 (2025) 055804, [ 2502.20000 ]. [33] J.-J. Li and A. Sedrakian, Bayesian inferences on covariant density functionals from multimessenger astrophysical data: The impacts of likelihood functions of low density matter constraints , Phys. Rev. C 112 

(2025) 015802, [ 2505.00911 ]. [34] J. Margueron and F. Gulminelli, Effect of high-order empirical parameters on the nuclear equation of state ,

Phys. Rev. C 99 (2019) 025806, [ 1807.01729 ]. [35] M. Marczenko, D. Blaschke, K. Redlich and C. Sasaki, 

Toward a unified equation of state for multi-messenger astronomy , Astron. Astrophys. 643 (2020) A82, [2004.09566 ]. [36] H. Koehn, H. Rose, P. T. H. Pang, R. Somasundaram, B. T. Reed, I. Tews et al., From existing and new nuclear and astrophysical constraints to stringent limits on the equation of state of neutron-rich dense matter , Phys. Rev. X 15 (2025) 021014. [37] J. J. Li and A. Sedrakian, New Covariant Density Functionals of Nuclear Matter for Compact Star Simulations , Astrophys. J. 957 (2023) 41, [2308.14457 ]. [38] LIGO Scientific, Virgo collaboration, R. Abbott, T. D. Abbott, S. Abraham et al., GW190814: Gravitational Waves from the Coalescence of a 23 21 

Solar Mass Black Hole with a 2.6 Solar Mass Compact Object , Astrophys. J. Lett. 896 (2020) L44, [2006.12611 ]. [39] I. Bombaci, The Hyperon Puzzle in Neutron Stars , in 

Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Hypernuclear and Strange Particle Physics (HYP2015 ,p. 101002, 2017. 1601.05339 . DOI. [40] M. Oertel, M. Hempel, T. Kl¨ ahn and S. Typel, 

Equations of state for supernovae and compact stars ,

Rev. Mod. Phys. 89 (2017) 015007, [ 1610.03361 ]. [41] M. Prakash, M. Prakash, J. M. Lattimer and C. J. Pethick, Rapid Cooling of Neutron Stars by Hyperons and Delta Isobars , Astrophys. J. Lett. 390 (1992) L77. [42] M. Fortin, A. R. Raduta, S. Avancini and C. Providˆ encia, Thermal evolution of relativistic hyperonic compact stars with calibrated equations of state , Phys. Rev. D 103 (2021) 083004, [ 2102.07565 ]. [43] A. R. Raduta, J. J. Li, A. Sedrakian and F. Weber, 

Cooling of hypernuclear compact stars: Hartree-Fock models and high-density pairing , MNRAS 487 (2019) 2639–2652, [ 1903.01295 ]. [44] C. Providˆ encia, M. Fortin, H. Pais and A. Rabhi, 

Hyperonic stars and the symmetry energy , Front. Astron. Space Sci. 6 (2019) 13, [ 1811.00786 ]. [45] M. G. Alford, S. Han and M. Prakash, Generic conditions for stable hybrid stars , Phys. Rev. D 88 

(2013) 083013, [ 1302.4732 ]. [46] J.-E. Christian, A. Zacchi and J. Schaffner-Bielich, 

Classifications of twin star solutions for a constant speed of sound parameterized equation of state , Eur. Phys. J. A 54 (2018) 28, [ 1707.07524 ]. [47] J. J. Li, A. Sedrakian and M. Alford, Confronting new NICER mass-radius measurements with phase transition in dense matter and twin compact stars ,

JCAP 2025 (2025) 002, [ 2409.05322 ]. [48] M. Alford and A. Sedrakian, Compact Stars with Sequential QCD Phase Transitions , Phys. Rev. Lett. 

119 (2017) 161104, [ 1706.01592 ]. [49] H. Tan, J. Noronha-Hostler and N. Yunes, Neutron star equation of state in light of gw190814 , Phys. Rev. Lett. 125 (2020) 261104, [ 2006.16296 ]. [50] R. Turolla, S. Zane and A. L. Watts, Magnetars: the physics behind observations. A review , Rep. Prog. Phys. 78 (2015) 116901, [ 1507.02924 ]. [51] P. Adhikari, M. Ammon, S. S. Avancini, A. Ayala, A. Bandyopadhyay, D. Blaschke et al., Strongly interacting matter in extreme magnetic fields , Prog. Part. Nucl. Phys. 146 (2026) 104199, [ 2412.18632 ]. [52] M. Bocquet, S. Bonazzola, E. Gourgoulhon and J. Novak, Rotating neutron star models with a magnetic field. , Astron. Astrophys. 301 (1995) 757, [gr-qc/9503044 ]. [53] A. Broderick, M. Prakash and J. M. Lattimer, The Equation of State of Neutron Star Matter in Strong Magnetic Fields , Astrophys. J. 537 (2000) 351–367, [astro-ph/0001537 ]. [54] C. Y. Cardall, M. Prakash and J. M. Lattimer, Effects of Strong Magnetic Fields on Neutron Star Structure ,

Astrophys. J. 554 (2001) 322–339, [arXiv:astro-ph/0011148 ]. [55] V. B. Thapa, M. Sinha, J. J. Li and A. Sedrakian, 

Massive ∆-resonance admixed hypernuclear stars with antikaon condensations , Phys. Rev. D 103 (2021) 063004, [ 2102.08787 ]. [56] J. Peterson, P. Costa, R. Kumar, V. Dexheimer, R. Negreiros and C. Providencia, Temperature and strong magnetic field effects in dense matter , Phys. Rev. D 108 (2023) 063011, [ 2304.02454 ]. [57] E. R. Most, J. Peterson, L. Scurto, H. Pais and V. Dexheimer, Impact of Magnetic-field-driven Anisotropies on the Equation of State Probed in Neutron Star Mergers , Astrophys. J. Lett. 989 (2025) L29, [ 2506.21696 ]. [58] D. Lai, Matter in strong magnetic fields , Rev. Mod. Phys. 73 (2001) 629, [ astro-ph/0009333 ]. [59] A. K. Harding and D. Lai, Physics of strongly magnetized neutron stars , Rep. Prog. Phys. 69 (2006) 2631–2708, [ astro-ph/0606674 ]. [60] D. Chatterjee, J. Novak and M. Oertel, Structure of ultra-magnetised neutron stars , Eur. Phys. J. A 57 

(2021) 249, [ 2108.13733 ]. [61] A. G. Pili, N. Bucciantini and L. Del Zanna, 

Axisymmetric equilibrium models for magnetized neutron stars in General Relativity under the Conformally Flat Condition , MNRAS 439 (Apr., 2014) 3541–3563, [ 1401.4308 ]. [62] M. Das, A. Sedrakian and B. Mukhopadhyay, 

Superconductivity in magnetars: Exploring type-I and type-II states in toroidal magnetic fields , Phys. Rev. D 

111 (2025) L081307, [ 2503.14594 ]. [63] J. W. Clark, Magnetic susceptibility of neutron matter ,

Phys. Rev. Lett. 23 (1969) 1463–1466. [64] I. Tews and A. Schwenk, Spin-polarized Neutron Matter, the Maximum Mass of Neutron Stars, and GW170817 , Astrophys. J. 892 (2020) 14, [ 1908.02638 ]. [65] I. Vida˜ na and I. Bombaci, Equation of state and magnetic susceptibility of spin polarized isospin asymmetric nuclear matter , Phys. Rev. C 66 (2002) 045801, [ nucl-th/0203061 ]. [66] P. Haensel and S. Bonazzola, Ferromagnetism of dense matter and magnetic properties of neutron stars. ,

Astron. Astrophys. 314 (1996) 1017–1023, [astro-ph/9605149 ]. [67] P. Arras and D. Lai, Neutrino - nucleon interactions in magnetized neutron star matter: The Effects of parity violation , Phys. Rev. D 60 (1999) 043001, [astro-ph/9811371 ]. [68] T. Maruyama, A. B. Balantekin, M.-K. Cheoun, T. Kajino, M. Kusakabe and G. J. Mathews, Arelativistic quantum approach to neutrino and antineutrino emission via the direct Urca process in strongly magnetized neutron-star matter , Phys. Lett. B 

824 (2022) 136813, [ 2103.01703 ]. [69] X.-G. Huang, M. Huang, D. H. Rischke and A. Sedrakian, Anisotropic hydrodynamics, bulk viscosities, and r-modes of strange quark stars with strong magnetic fields , Phys. Rev. D 81 (2010) 045015, [0910.3633 ]. [70] A. Y. Potekhin, J. A. Pons and D. Page, Neutron stars - cooling and transport , Space Sci. Rev. 191 (2015) 239–291, [ 1507.06186 ]. [71] I. A. Shovkovy and R. Ghosh, Review of heat and charge transport in strongly magnetized relativistic plasmas , 2506.14956 .[72] J. Ventura and A. Potekhin, Neutron Star Envelopes and Thermal Radiation from the Magnetic Surface , in 

The Neutron Star - Black Hole Connection 

(C. Kouveliotou, J. Ventura and E. van den Heuvel, 22 

eds.), vol. 567, p. 393, 2001. astro-ph/0104003 . DOI. [73] N. Chamel, Z. K. Stoyanov, L. M. Mihailov, Y. D. Mutafchieva, R. L. Pavlov and C. J. Velchev, Role of Landau quantization on the neutron-drip transition in magnetar crusts , Phys. Rev. C 91 (2015) 065801. [74] R. D. Blandford and L. Hernquist, Magnetic susceptibility of a neutron star crust , J. Phys. C: Solid State Phys. 15 (1982) 6233–6243. [75] I.-S. Suh and G. J. Mathews, Magnetic domains in magnetar matter as an engine for soft gamma-ray repeaters and anomalous X-ray pulsars , Astrophys. J. 

717 (2010) 843–848. [76] P. B. Rau and I. Wasserman, Magnetohydrodynamic stability of magnetars in the ultrastrong field regime II: The crust , MNRAS 520 (2023) 1173–1192. [77] P. B. Rau and I. Wasserman, Numerical Simulation of Electron Magnetohydrodynamics with Landau-quantized Electrons in Magnetar Crusts ,

Astrophys. J. 979 (2025) 154, [ 2411.07948 ]. [78] A. Sedrakian and J. W. Clark, Superfluidity in nuclear systems and neutron stars , Eur. Phys. J. A 55 (2019) 167, [ 1802.00017 ]. [79] M. V. Zverev, J. W. Clark and V. A. Khodel, 3P2-3F2

pairing in dense neutron matter: the spectrum of solutions , Nucl. Phys. A 720 (2003) 20–42, [nucl-th/0301028 ]. [80] W. Zuo, C. X. Cui, U. Lombardo and H.-J. Schulze, 

Three-body force effect on P3 F 2 neutron superfluidity in neutron matter, neutron star matter, and neutron stars , Phys. Rev. C 78 (2008) 015805. [81] J. M. Dong, U. Lombardo and W. Zuo, 3PF 2 pairing in high-density neutron matter , Phys. Rev. C 87 

(2013) 062801, [ 1304.0117 ]. [82] D. Ding, A. Rios, H. Dussan, W. H. Dickhoff, S. J. Witte, A. Carbone et al., Pairing in high-density neutron matter including short- and long-range correlations , Phys. Rev. C 94 (2016) 025802, [1601.01600 ]. [83] P. Papakonstantinou and J. W. Clark, Three-Nucleon Forces and Triplet Pairing in Neutron Matter , J. Low Temp. Phys. 189 (2017) 361–382, [ 1705.10463 ]. [84] T. Alm, G. R¨ opke, A. Sedrakian and F. Weber, 3D2

pairing in asymmetric nuclear matter , Nucl. Phys. A 

604 (1996) 491–504. [85] M. Stein, A. Sedrakian, X.-G. Huang and J. W. Clark, 

Spin-polarized neutron matter: Critical unpairing and BCS-BEC precursor , Phys. Rev. C 93 (2016) 015802, [1510.06000 ]. [86] M. Sinha and A. Sedrakian, Magnetar superconductivity versus magnetism: Neutrino cooling processes , Phys. Rev. C 91 (2015) 035805, [1502.02979 ]. [87] A. Haber and A. Schmitt, Critical magnetic fields in a superconductor coupled to a superfluid , Phys. Rev. D 

95 (2017) 116016, [ 1704.01575 ]. [88] M. Tinkham, Introduction to superconductivity , in 

Introduction to superconductivity, McGraw-Hill, New York. , 1996. [89] P. Muzikar, J. A. Sauls and J. W. Serene, 3P2 pairing in neutron-star matter: Magnetic field effects and vortices , Phys. Rev. D 21 (1980) 1494–1502. [90] J. A. Sauls and D. L. Stein, p-wave superfluidity in neutron stars and 3He. , Physica B: Condensed Matter 

1 (1981) 55–56. [91] J. A. Sauls, D. L. Stein and J. W. Serene, Magnetic vortices in a rotating 3P2 neutron superfluid , Phys. Rev. D 25 (1982) 967–975. [92] J. A. Sauls, Superfluidity in the Interiors of Neutron Stars , arXiv e-prints (2019) arXiv:1906.09641, [1906.09641 ]. [93] L. Pitaevskii and S. Stringari, Bose-Einstein Condensation . Oxford University Press, 2003. [94] P.-G. de Gennes, Superconductivity of Metals and Alloys . Advanced Book Program, Perseus Books, New York, N.Y., 1999. [95] Y. Masaki, T. Mizushima and M. Nitta, Non-Abelian half-quantum vortices in 3P2 topological superfluids ,

Phys. Rev. B 105 (2022) L220503, [ 2107.02448 ]. [96] P. F. Bedaque and A. N. Nicholson, Low lying modes of triplet-condensed neutron matter and their effective theory , Phys. Rev. C 87 (2013) 055807, [ 1212.1122 ]. [97] P. F. Bedaque and S. Reddy, Goldstone modes in the neutron star core , Phys. Lett. B 735 (2014) 340–343, [1307.8183 ]. [98] L. B. Leinson, Superfluid phases of triplet pairing and neutrino emission from neutron stars , Phys. Rev. C 

82 (2010) 065503, [ 1012.5387 ]. [99] M. Kobayashi and M. Nitta, Core structures of vortices in Ginzburg-Landau theory for neutron 3P2 superfluids ,

Phys. Rev. C 105 (2022) 035807, [ 2203.09300 ]. [100] Y. Masaki, T. Mizushima and M. Nitta, Non-Abelian Anyons and Non-Abelian Vortices in Topological Superconductors , in Encyclopedia of Condensed Matter Physics (Second Edition) , vol. 2, pp. 755–794, Elsevier, 2024. 2301.11614 . DOI. [101] S. Yasui, C. Chatterjee and M. Nitta, Topological defects at the boundary of neutron 3P2 superfluids in neutron stars , Phys. Rev. C 101 (2020) 025204, [1905.13666 ]. [102] A. Sedrakian and P. B. Rau, Josephson currents in neutron stars , Phys. Rev. D 111 (2025) 023044, [2407.13686 ]. [103] D. M. Sedrakian and K. M. Shakhabasian, On a mechanism of magnetic field generation in pulsars ,

Astrofizika 16 (1980) 727–736. [104] M. A. Alpar, S. A. Langer and J. A. Sauls, Rapid postglitch spin-up of the superfluid core in pulsars ,

Astrophys. J. 282 (1984) 533–541. [105] B. Haskell and A. Sedrakian, Superfluidity and Superconductivity in Neutron Stars , Astrophys. Space Sci. Libr. 457 (2018) 401–454, [ 1709.10340 ]. [106] D. Antonopoulou, B. Haskell and C. M. Espinoza, 

Pulsar glitches: observations and physical interpretation , Rep. Prog. Phys. 85 (2022) 126901. [107] L. Bildsten and R. I. Epstein, Superfluid Dissipation Time Scales in Neutron Star Crusts , Astrophys. J. 342 

(1989) 951. [108] A. D. Sedrakian and D. M. Sedrakian, Superfluid Core Rotation in Pulsars. I. Vortex Cluster Dynamics ,

Astrophys. J. 447 (1995) 305. [109] G. Baym, C. Pethick, D. Pines and M. Ruderman, 

Spin up in neutron stars: The future of the Vela pulsar , Nature 224 (1969) 872–874. [110] J. M. Cordes, G. S. Downs and J. Krause-Polstorff, 

JPL Pulsar Timing Observations. V. Macro- and Microjumps in the VELA Pulsar 0833-45 , Astrophys. J. 330 (1988) 847. [111] I. L. Bekarevich and I. M. Khalatnikov, 23 

Phenomenological derivation of the equations of vortex motion in He II , Soviet Physics JETP 13 (1961) 643–646. [112] A. D. Sedrakian and D. M. Sedrakian, Superfluid hydrodynamics of rotating neutron stars , Soviet Physics JETP 81 (1995) 382–389. [113] M. A. Alpar and J. A. Sauls, On the dynamical coupling between the superfluid interior and the crust of a neutron star , Astrophys. J. 327 (1988) 723–725. [114] P. W. Anderson and N. Itoh, Pulsar glitches and restlessness as a hard superfluidity phenomenon ,

Nature 256 (1975) 25–27. [115] B. Link, Thermally Activated Post-glitch Response of the Neutron Star Inner Crust and Core. I. Theory ,

Astrophys. J. 789 (2014) 141, [ 1311.2499 ]. [116] B. Link, R. I. Epstein and J. M. Lattimer, Pulsar constraints on neutron star structure and equation of state , Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 (1999) 3362–3365, [astro-ph/9909146 ]. [117] N. Chamel, Crustal Entrainment and Pulsar Glitches ,

Phys. Rev. Lett. 110 (2013) 011101, [ 1210.8177 ]. [118] G. Almirante and M. Urban, Superfluid Density in Linear Response Theory: Pulsar Glitches from the Inner Crust of Neutron Stars , Phys. Rev. Lett. 135 

(2025) 132701, [ 2503.21635 ]. [119] G. Watanabe and C. J. Pethick, Superfluid Density of Neutrons in the Inner Crust of Neutron Stars: New Life for Pulsar Glitch Models , Phys. Rev. Lett. 119 

(2017) 062701, [ 1704.08859 ]. [120] A. Sedrakian and J. M. Cordes, Vortex-interface interactions and generation of glitches in pulsars ,

MNRAS 307 (1999) 365, [ astro-ph/9806042 ]. [121] E. G¨ ugercino˘ glu and M. A. Alpar, Vortex Creep Against Toroidal Flux Lines, Crustal Entrainment, and Pulsar Glitches , Astrophys. J. Lett. 788 (2014) L11, [1405.6635 ]. [122] K. Hossain, K. Kobuszewski, M. M. Forbes, P. Magierski, K. Sekizawa and G. Wlazlowski, 

Rotating quantum turbulence in the unitary fermi gas ,

Phys. Rev. A 105 (2022) 013304. [123] E. Poli, T. Bland, S. J. M. White, M. J. Mark, F. Ferlaino, S. Trabucco et al., Glitches in Rotating Supersolids , Phys. Rev. Lett. 131 (2023) 223401, [2306.09698 ]. [124] G. Marmorini, S. Yasui and M. Nitta, Pulsar glitches from quantum vortex networks , Sci. Rep. 14 (2024) 7857, [ 2010.09032 ]. [125] A. Sedrakian, I. Wasserman and J. M. Cordes, 

Precession of isolated neutron stars I: effects of imperfect pinning , Astrophys. J. 524 (1998) 341, [astro-ph/9801188 ]. [126] B. Link, Constraining Hadronic Superfluidity with Neutron Star Precession , Phys. Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 101101, [ astro-ph/0302441 ]. [127] D. I. Jones, G. Ashton and R. Prix, Implications of the Occurrence of Glitches in Pulsar Free Precession Candidates , Phys. Rev. Lett. 118 (2017) 261101, [1610.03509 ]. [128] M. Ruderman, Long Period Oscillations in Rotating Neutron Stars , Nature 225 (1970) 619–620. [129] J. Noronha and A. Sedrakian, Tkachenko modes as sources of quasiperiodic pulsar spin variations , Phys. Rev. D 77 (2008) 023008, [ 0708.2876 ]. [130] E. Chandler and G. Baym, Long-wavelength collective modes of a vortex lattice in a rotating superfluid , J. Low Temp. Phys. 62 (1986) 119–142. [131] B. Carter and D. Langlois, Relativistic models for interacting superfluids , Nucl. Phys. B 454 (1995) 402–424, [ arXiv:hep-th/9611042 ]. [132] D. Langlois, D. M. Sedrakian and B. Carter, 

Differential rotation of relativistic superfluid in neutron stars , MNRAS 297 (1998) 1189–1201, [arXiv:astro-ph/9711042 ]. [133] M. E. Gusakov, Relativistic formulation of the Hall-Vinen-Bekarevich-Khalatnikov superfluid hydrodynamics , Phys. Rev. D 93 (2016) 064033. [134] M. E. Gusakov and V. A. Dommes, Relativistic dynamics of superfluid-superconducting mixtures in the presence of topological defects and an electromagnetic field with application to neutron stars , Phys. Rev. D 

94 (2016) 083006. [135] P. B. Rau and I. Wasserman, Relativistic finite temperature multifluid hydrodynamics in a neutron star from a variational principle , Phys. Rev. D 102 (2020) 063011, [ arXiv:2004.07468 ]. [136] M. G. Alford, A. Schmitt, K. Rajagopal and T. Sch¨ afer, Color superconductivity in dense quark matter , Rev. Mod. Phys. 80 (2008) 1455–1515, [arXiv:0709.4635 ]. [137] D. Bailin and A. Love, Superfluidity and superconductivity in relativistic fermion systems , Phys. Rep. 107 (1984) 325–385. [138] M. G. Alford, K. Rajagopal and F. Wilczek, 

Color-flavor locking and chiral symmetry breaking in high density qcd , Nucl. Phys. B 537 (1999) 443–458, [arXiv:hep-ph/9804403 ]. [139] D. B. Kaplan and S. Reddy, Novel phases and transitions in color flavor locked matter , Phys. Rev. D 

65 (2002) 054042, [ arXiv:hep-ph/0107265 ]. [140] P. F. Bedaque and T. Sch¨ afer, High density quark matter under stress , Nucl. Phys. A 697 (2002) 802–822, [ arXiv:hep-ph/0105150 ]. [141] R. Anglani, R. Casalbuoni, M. Ciminale, R. Gatto, N. Ippolito, M. Mannarelli et al., Crystalline color superconductors , Rev. Mod. Phys. 86 (2014) 509–561, [arXiv:1302.4264 ]. [142] A. Sedrakian, Superconductivity with deformed Fermi surfaces and compact stars , in NATO Advanced Research Workshop on Superdense QCD Matter and Compact Stars , pp. 209–224, 2003. nucl-th/0312053 .DOI. [143] H. Grigorian, D. Blaschke and D. N. Voskresensky, 

Cooling of neutron stars with color superconducting quark cores , Phys. Rev. C 71 (2005) 045801. [144] H. J. Warringa, The phase diagram of neutral quark matter with pseudoscalar condensates in a magnetic field , Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 085029, [ 1207.7030 ]. [145] J. L. Noronha and I. A. Shovkovy, Color-flavor locked superconductor in a magnetic field , Phys. Rev. D 76 

(2007) 105030, [ 0708.0307 ]. [146] M. G. Alford and A. Sedrakian, Color-magnetic flux tubes in quark matter cores of neutron stars , J. Phys. G: Nucl. Part. Phys. 37 (2010) 075202, [arXiv:1001.3346 ]. [147] A. P. Balachandran, S. Digal and T. Matsuura, 

Semi-superfluid strings in high density QCD , Phys. Rev. D 73 (2006) 074009, [ hep-ph/0509276 ]. [148] STAR Collaboration, Global λ hyperon polarization in 24 

nuclear collisions , Nature 548 (2017) 62–65. [149] M. Cipriani, W. Vinci and M. Nitta, Colorful boojums at the interface of a color superconductor , Phys. Rev. D 86 (2012) 121704, [ 1208.5704 ]. [150] C. Chatterjee, M. Nitta and S. Yasui, Quark-hadron continuity under rotation: Vortex continuity or boojum? , Phys. Rev. D 99 (2019) 034001, [arXiv:1806.09291 ]. [151] M. G. Alford, G. Baym, K. Fukushima, T. Hatsuda and M. Tachibana, Continuity of vortices from the hadronic to the color-flavor locked phase in dense matter , Phys. Rev. D 99 (2019) 036004, [ 1803.05115 ]. [152] M. Eto, Y. Hirono, M. Nitta and S. Yasui, Vortices and other topological solitons in dense quark matter ,

Prog. Theor. Exp. Phys. 2014 (2014) 012D01, [arXiv:1308.1535 ]. [153] M. Mannarelli, K. Rajagopal and R. Sharma, The rigidity of crystalline color superconducting quark matter , Phys. Rev. D 76 (2007) 074026, [arXiv:hep-ph/0702021 ].